{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs22 \cf0 HathiTrust History
\b0 \
\'93HT\'92s \'93dark history\'94\'97 the years HT\'92s progenitors spent behind closed doors gestating the digital infrastructure. As with DI development more generally, HT emerged through iterative negotiations, demonstrations and challenges of power, and political posturing and participation. Through this history, we gain deeper understandings and appreciations of the various and sometimes surprising ways that values, power, and politics shape and are shaped by technical, social, and legal/policy concerns in DI development.\'94 (Centivany 2537)\
\
\'93three key moments or turning points in its development where / the interplay of values, power and politics proved determinative in the outcome: (1) the decision to join Google\'92s mass digitization project (\'93MDP\'94), (2) developing the initial digital infrastructure that would become the technical backbone of HT, and (3) fleshing out the social and political dimensions of HT as a semi-autonomous collective organization operating beneath a persistent partial institutional umbrella.\'94 (Centivany 2537-8)\
\'93The story of HT\'92s emergence is organized around three key moments or turning points: (1) the University of Michigan\'92s (\'93UM\'94) decision to join the Google\'92s MDP, (2) developing the initial digital infrastructure that would become the backbone of HathiTrust, and (3) fleshing out the organizational and institutional aspects of HathiTrust prior to its launch.\'94 (Centivany 2359)\
\
\'93HT\'92s origin story began many years earlier when, during a visit to his alma mater in 2002, Google co-founder Larry Page met with librarians at UM to discuss a possible joint digitization venture. From the start, the MDP was deeply contentious. \'85 How does a traditionally risk averse institution like UM decide to undertake such a politically risky, potentially costly, and legally precarious activity as digitizing its entire (roughly six million volume) print library?\'94 (Centivany 2359)\
\'93Mass digitization was not seen as a goal but a given. Participants were not grappling with 
\i if
\i0  but rather 
\i when
\i0  and 
\i how
\i0  digital conversion of the print library would happen.\'94 (Centivany 2359)\
\'93Several HT progenitors reflected on the \'93strong belief in the inherent rightness\'94 of digitizing books so they might become more accessible to society. \'85 UM\'92s Chief Librarian explained: \'91Goddammit, I want there to be a mechanism where almost everybody in the world has access to almost everything that has ever been published \'85 The Google project showed me a feasible path to get there, not a complete path, but the starting point. Let's digitize a whole bunch of stuff so that all that prevents it from being available in the way I'd like it to be available is law and custom. I was optimistic that if we, as a society, have valuable assets, then we, as a society, will figure out how to use them. That was the utopian goal.\'92\'94 (Centivany 2360)\
\
\

\b Lit Review
\b0 \
\'93Echoing observations made by Kling [16], Edwards and colleagues hone in on some of the particular challenges and tensions slow-moving, self-preserving institutions like libraries face when they attempt to translate their deeply engrained traditions, practices, and values to a new digital environment: \'93Transformative infrastructures cannot merely be technical; they must engage fundamental changes in our social institutions, practices, norms and beliefs as well\'94 [6:13]. The work of Star [19], Ribes [18], Bowker [2] and others offer insights useful for conceptualizing scale \'97 in terms of size, time and zone of influence \'97 in studies of infrastructure development, reminding us that DI like HT do not spring up as de novo fully fleshed forms but rather draw upon and interoperate with much older information and communication practices, norms, and technologies and therefore their study demands sensitivity to the \'93long now\'94 of DI development.\'94 (Centivany 2538)\
[16] Kling, R. (Ed.). (1996). Computerization and controversy: value conflicts and social choices. Morgan Kaufmann.\
[6] Edwards, P. et al (2013). Knowledge infrastructures: Intellectual frameworks and research challenges.\
[19] Star, S. L., & Ruhleder, K. (1996). Steps toward an ecology of infrastructure: Design and access for large information spaces. Information systems research, 7(1), 111-134.\
[18] Ribes, D., & Finholt, T. A. (2009). The Long Now of Technology Infrastructure: Articulating Tensions in Development. Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 10(5), 375.\
[2] Bowker, G. C., Edwards, P. N., Jackson, S. J., & Knobel, C. P. (2010). 1.1 The Long Now of Cyberinfrastructure. World Wide Research: Reshaping the Sciences and Humanities, 40.\
\
\'93Numerous library and information science studies have sought to position Google and library digitization projects in relation to each other using a variety of values and metrics. Problems and challenges associated with quality, integrity, and access have been addressed in the context of meta- data, preservation, and search [3, 4, 5, 22]. Citing the overwhelming discourse and rhetoric about the relative \'93open vs. closed\'94 nature of many digitization projects, Leetaru undertook a comparative analysis of the digitization efforts of Google and the Open Content Alliance finding, in practice, that distinctions between open and closed may be more superficial than commonly assumed [17]. Noting the power of knowledge infrastructures to differentially shape, generate and distribute knowledge and justice, Hoffman has conducted a number of studies that describe and critique the MDP on the basis of its negative implications for gender equality and concerns around self-respect, finding that these interests had been promoted by traditional library practices but did not appear to receive adequate support or protection under Google. [10, 11, 12].\'94 (Centivany 2538)\
[3, 4, 5, 22]\
[10, 11, 12]\
\
\'93Decision- making and sensemaking are entangled in dynamic and continuously evolving processes of social interaction that, over time, become more ordered, stable, and resilient to criticism. Jones elucidated many of these processes in the context of libraries / and library digitization noting, in particular, the importance of naivet\'e9 in jump-starting difficult projects and the eventual, almost centripetal return to domain expertise as a means of bringing the projects to fruition and (back) into alignment with traditional library goals, values, practices, and expectations [14, 15].\'94 (Centivany 2538-9)\
[14, 15]}