{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;
\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;
\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Chapter two \cf3 takes up the contemporary archive directly, \cf2 examin\cf3 ing\cf2  corpora of eighteenth-century literature through the same critical lens by which anthologies and classroom teaching are often scrutinized. It makes the case that digital archives \cf4 can implicitly\cf2  shape scholarly research, and begins the process of revealing and interrogating their invisible assumptions. The chapter begins with a task somewhere between a literature review and a scientific meta-analysis. My first goal will be to survey as broadly as possible the accessible mass holdings of eighteenth century texts (\cf4 all those \cf2 containing at least 100 works from the 1790s): simply putting all of this information in one place is useful as a lit review; adding a discussion of each archive\'92s selection criteria brings it into the realm of a meta-analysis. I expect to find systematic exclusions as archives \cf5 invest more labour in their holdings, with narrower selections as they move\cf2  from bibliographic data to facsimiles to \cf4 scholarly \cf2 transcripts. To contextualize these decisions about inclusion, I will research the history of how each corpus was formed. I will discuss and theorize the difficulties involved in researching these histories: drawing on, for example, my experience flying to California in order to be taught about HathiTrust\'92s codebase, I will critique the assumption that digital resources make all information transparent and accessible. Returning to the actual contents of each archive, I will discuss the nature of their exclusions, and consider paths to ameliorate them. Then I will synthesize these disparate sources of texts and metadata, a substantial technical challenge, to see how the task may be accomplished, and to see what correlations between archives might illuminate the decade. I am particularly curious to see if even one text will appear in all corpora, and, if so, which one it will be. Whichever texts appear most persistently will form the basis of my \'93case study\'94 in this chapter. The second chapter thus establishes the corpora which will drive my argument in chapter three, and will shape the later phases of my research in chapters four and five.}