{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green121\blue193;\red206\green187\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c57288\c79972;\cssrgb\c84700\c79200\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs22 \cf0 Abstract
\b0 : \'93Peter Murphy\'92s book examines the tension between the material, economic pressures motivating poetry as an occupation, and traditional notions of the forces of literary history, or poetry as an art. It focuses on five writers in the Romantic period: James MacPherson, Robert Burns, James Hogg, Walter Scott, and William Wordsworth. The first four are Scottish; the economic and linguistic status of Scotland during the period makes its writers especially interesting as examples of poetic ambition. Murphy\'92s study then crosses the border into England, offering a new perspective on Wordsworth\'92s poetic ambition and career. Murphy\'92s engagement throughout with the ballad revival fields fresh insights into some major concerns of the Romantic period: the interest in the primitive and the simple, experiments with poetic form, the problematics of loss, and the emergence of a new literary culture.\'94 (Page i)\
\

\b Introduction
\b0 \
\'93The fact that critics want to talk about Wordsworth more than they do MacPherson is a fact, and in what follows I try to deal with that fact.\'94 (2)\
\'93I try to specify the forces that work to produce the poetry that these writers write, and the forces that cause them to choose poetry writing as a job in the first place.\'94 (3)\
\'93That they choose poetry as a means of escaping into the world of higher life puts poetry in a most material and homely setting. Most of the poetry in these careers has the plainest of material purposes, and much the same status as any other thinga person might make and sell for a hopeful profit. By delineating with particularity the sorts of pressure that result in poetry in these lives, I hope to return poetry to the plain and everyday world of human motive and need, and in this sense this book is deeply historicist.\'94 (3)\
Burns couldn\'92t originally mix among the decorous classes. \'93Society is ruled by form, and poetry is too\'85 Poetic propriety and \'91social\'92 propriety mix and become indistinguishable. For the ambitious, a poetic \'91mistake\'92 has exactly the same consequences as / a social mistake: the threat of failure, rejection by the world that the ambitious writer wishes to enter.\'94 (3-4)\
Evaluates people based on how much they exploit the oral northernness they sell - MacPherson the worst, Wordsworth and Scott both have integrity (4-5)\
\'93In what follows I do not wish to recreate the poetic haven that Brooks gives us, but I try to acknowledge at all times that some poets are more capable than others, and that this fact must exert an important evaluation of the place and identity of poetry. To revocalize Brooks in a new key: if it is worth talking about poetry as a distinct form of culture, then we must talk about poetic success and failure. \'85 If poetry as poetry exists in any meaningful form for us, we must find a way to tak about what makes poetry different from other forms of writing: we must talk about the life and energy of poetic form.\'94 (7)\
\

\b Chapter 1: James MacPherson
\b0 \
\'93MacPherson was once famous; he has now lapsed, and when we turn to him we must first raise him from oblivion. \'85quite probably he would not have cared about the lapse of his literary reputation. He died a famous and influential man, and, during much of his life, his primary activities and interests were not literary.\'94 (9)\
P. 31 - marketing of Ossian. \'93MacPherson can compliment Ossian\'92s poems so extravagantly because he claims to be merely a translator\'85 The money, currency, accrues to MacPherson; the golden intregrity is added to Ossian\'92s account.\'94 But I don\'92t see much discussion of how much money or from whom\
\'93MacPherson was one of the greatest of Highland exporters, and the Ossian poems drew more attention to the Highlands than anything else, the rebellion of 1745 excepted\'94 (36) \'97 substantiated by a spike in tourism\
\'93What sort of poetry is this, and what sort of poetic status can we give to James MacPherson? \'85 The controversy and the curiously opaque fraud of the poems work in MacPherson\'92s favor, since he wants notice above all. He can\'92t lose: I have tried to show who does lose, but MacPherson cannot. His ambition is fulfilled with ruthless freedom, and as long as he is free he will simply ride the wind of the storm he raises. I would insist that his canonical death is justified, though, because he has committed a literary crime. He is a brilliant but utterly unpoetic poet. His contempt for form is a contempt for / real literary beauty, an the divine emptiness of Ossian\'92s poems is the result. He is a calculator, a poet for whom poetry is quite simply a possible road to success, and so he happily leaves literature behind\'85 Especially after the reworked inspiration that the high romantic poets give to us, MacPherson\'92s motives, and what they produce, look appalling. I think we should insist on the ugliness of MacPherson\'92s poetry, but not on the ugliness of his motives. Such motives have produced more poetry than we often admit. Ambition is a human passion and partakes of human complexity. \'85 Burns\'92 ambition matches that of MacPherson, and he creates a career for himself  in a very similar way, by retailing simplicity to the jaded sophisticate. But Burns was a poet, and he could not blind himself to the consequences of form. This sensitivity derails his career, and he dies romantically young and destitute; but he wrote some beautiful things.\'94 (48)\
\
I HATE THIS. Despite the rhetoric of being realistic and understanding about poetry as an occupation, it\'92s constantly drawing equivalences between commerciality and quality, and reinforcing the myth of the uncommercial beautiful genius.\
\

\b Chapter 5: William Wordsworth
\b0 \
\'93Like Scott (and my other writers), Wordsworth was also profoundly interested in his readers, and profoundly interested in being a popular author. Wordsworth thought much more about success and failure than we tend to remember, and even though recen writing has taken / some notice of his interest in his readers we still remember the \'91fit audience\'92 of 1815 better than the anxously solicitous Wordsworth of the Preface to the Lyrical Ballads. Unlike Scott, though, Wordsworth\'92s methods resist popularity: he is constantly scolding and working on his reader, emphasizing moments of discomfort rather than passing them by.\'94 (182-3)\
\'93Poetic integrity does not, however, protect Wordsworth from becoming \cb2 painfully frustrated by his lack of influence over his readers, as measured by their resistance to purchasing his books. \cb1 Wordsworth wants to sell books: he wants people to read his books, be changed, and make him famous.\'94 (183)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb3 \'93For me and for Wordsworth, the proof is in the poetry\'94 (187)\cb1 \
\'93\'91Peter Bell\'92 s not a bad poem; it is a funny, wry poem, and a sincere poem too; it has more of the zany energies of the lyrics of 1798 than the staid proprieties of its published date, 1819. It is, however, a failed poem: it cannot fulfill its impossible desire of including the whole poetic world inside itself. It fails at the limits of poetry.\'94 (194) \cb3 It\'92s also an infamous commercial flop!!!\cb1 \
WW\'92s 1815 essay is the peak and the end of his obsession w popularity \'97 expresses frustration, then formulates protective argument that greatness is unpopular (194-5). \'93There is a desperation about the whole argument, and no wonder, since one of its tasks is to prove Shakespeare unpopular.\'94 (195)\
P. 200 - begins long discussion of \'93The Thorn\'94}