{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi240\sl280\sa60\qj

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 There\'92s a particular comfort, when you\'92re miserable, in having someone say to you: yes, you 
\i are
\i0  miserable, your suffering 
\i is
\i0  real, your oppressor 
\i is
\i0  a tyrant, it\'92s not your fault, there\'92s nothing you can do, but you will get the last laugh in the end. And anybody can imagine themselves as completely miserable. (Whether they are correct to draw that analogy from their own sufferings to this prison scene or not is another matter; it\'92s unlikely that Vicar was often read by actual prisoners, so I wouldn\'92t imagine them as the actual target audience.)\

\b \
\'93The men who have the necessaries of living are not poor, and they who want them must be miserable. Yes, my friends, we must be miserable. No vain efforts of a refined imagination can sooth the wants of nature, can give elastic sweetness to the dank vapour of a dungeon, or ease to the throbbings of a broken heart. Let the philosopher from his couch of softness tell us that we can resist all these. Alas! the effort by which we resist them is still the greatest pain! Death is slight, and any man may sustain it; but torments are dreadful, and these no man can endure.\'94 (Ch 20)}