{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
LitEncyclopedia: \'93
\f1\fs28 \cf4 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 When Dorriforth learns that he has unexpectedly inherited the estate and thetitle of his cousin, Lord Elmwood, he seeks release from his vows so that hemay marry, settling on Miss Fenton, the previous Lord Elmwood's ownfianc\'e9e. Despite its occasional abrasiveness, Miss Milner's rashvivacity is all the more appealing for its contrast with Miss Fenton'sdecorous but flat placidity. If Miss Milner can be said to look forward toAusten's Emma, Miss Fenton seems to anticipate Jane Fairfax in the samenovel. Her education has been perfect, and her conduct and manners are abovereproach. But Inchbald adds a satiric twist to this characterization that isabsent in Austen's more sympathetic version. Tractable, refined, andunemotional, Miss Fenton takes late eighteenth-century notions of conventionalfemale perfection to parodic extreme. Unlike, for example, Dorriforth'sinsubordinate sister, Miss Fenton expresses absolutely no preference in ahusband. She is willing to marry \'93because it is her duty,\'94 raising noobjection to substituting the surviving cousin for her previous fianc\'e9,for, both being Lord Elmwood in their turn, both are equally suitable.Inchbald's dramatic economy of characterization is often apparent when shecontrasts Miss Fenton's impassive composure with the heightened emotionsof those around her. When Miss Milner flouts Sandford, for example,\'93[s]ome of the persons present laughed \'97 Mrs. Horton coughed \'97Miss Woodley blushed \'97 Lord Elmwood sneered \'97 Dorriforth frowned\'97 and Miss Fenton, looked just as she did before.\'94 In this novelwhere both hero and heroine are sympathetic for their depth of feeling, MissFenton's emotional flatness is nearly as repellent as Sandford'sspite. On learning that Miss Milner is in love with him, Dorriforth / Lord Elmwoodrealizes that he too is in love her, and so Miss Fenton serenely gives way,allowing an engagement between Lord Elmwood and Miss Milner.\'94}