{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
THE CAPTIVE\
 Matthew G. Lewis.\
\
Stay, Gaoler, stay, and hear my woe!\
She is not mad who kneels to thee;\

\b For what I'm now too well I know,\
And what I was, and what should he.
\b0 \
I'll rave no more in proud despair;\
My language shall be mild though sad;\
But yet I firmly, truly swear,\
I am not mad, I am not mad!\
\

\b My tyrant husband forged the tale\
Which chains me in this dismal cell
\b0 ;\
My fate unknown my Friends bewail,-\

\b O, Gaoler, haste that fate to tell!\
O, haste my Father's heart to cheer!\
His heart at once 'twill grieve and glad\
To know, though kept a captive here,\
I am not mad, I am not mad!\

\b0 \
He smiles in scorn, and turns the key;\
He quits the grate; I knelt in vain!-\

\b His glimmering lamp still...still I see,-\
'Tis gone! and all is gloom again.\
Cold, bitter cold!-No warmth! no light!-
\b0 \
Life, all thy comforts once I had;\

\b Yet here I'm chained, this freezing night,\
Although not mad; no-no-not mad!
\b0 \
\

\b 'Tis sure some dream, some vision vain
\b0 ;\
What! I, the child of rank and wealth,-\
Am I the wretch who clanks this chain.\
Bereft of freedom, friends and health?\
Ah! while I dwell on blessings fled,\
Which nevermore my heart must glad,\
How aches my heart, 
\b how burns my head;\
But 'tis not mad; no, 'tis not mad!
\b0 \
\
Hast thou, my child, forgot, ere this,\
A mother's face, a mother's tongue?\
She'll ne'er forget your parting kiss,\
Nor 'round her neck how fast you clung;\
Nor how with her you sued to stay;\
Nor how that suit your Sire forbade;\

\b Nor how-I'll drive such thoughts away!\
They'll make me mad! they'll make me mad!
\b0 \
\
His rosy lips, how sweet, they smiled,\
His mild blue eyes, how bright they shone!\
None ever bore a lovelier child,\
And art thou now forever gone?\
And must I never see thee more,\
My pretty-my pretty-pretty Lad?\
I will be free! unbar the door!\
I am not mad, I am not mad!\
\
O, hark! what mean those yells and cries?\
\
His chain some furious madman breaks;\
He comes!-I see his glaring eyes;\
Now-now, my dungeon-grate he shakes!\
Help-Help!-He's gone!-Oh! fearful woe,\

\b Such screams to hear, such sights to see!\
My brain, my brain-I know, I know\
I am not mad, but soon shall be.
\b0 \
\
Yes! soon!-for Lo yon' while I speak.\
Mark how yon demon's eyeballs glare!\
He sees me, now, with dreadful shrieks.\
He whirls a serpent high in air!-\
Horror-the reptile strikes his tooth\
Deep in my heart, so crushed and sad;\

\b Ay, laugh, ye fiends;-I feel the truth;\
Your task is done, I'm Mad! I'm Mad!}