{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In The Vicar of Wakefield, feeling is used as an alternative value system to money. As the Primrose family grows poorer and poorer, this proves their love stronger and stronger. It is only money which conflicts with duty, never feeling, as when Primrose refuses to sign away his daughter\'92s reputation even to escape debtor\'92s prison. The novel thus articulates a kind of virtue which consists in endurance of and mental superiority to the attacks of others. The pleasure of this virtue comes in a sense of vindication. When Primrose converts his fellow prisoners, for example, the narrative emphasis is on how well he rises above their crude insults, rather than on his message; by contrast with Hannah More, we can see that the focus is on the pleasure of a comfortable reader identifying with Primroses\'92s persecution, rather than on persuasively presenting correct opinions. After extensively discussing the fact that virtue\'92s rewards are all in the afterlife and not on earth, the novel enters a rapid reversal-of-fortunes phase that is almost as dramatic as the preceding thirty chapters of escalating misery: Sir William Thornhill arrives as a messianic figure who has been watching the Primrose family in moral guise and will now administer wide-reaching justice. The more difficult ethical lesson in the novel is its mercy: its religious message defers all punishment to the afterlife, and holds that no one is past reform, and so its final reversal of fortune is very mild for the novel\'92s former tyrants. Although the novel was initially successful on these aesthetic terms, as its definition of \'93virtue\'94 lost its persuasiveness, it soon began to seem embarassingly over-earnest to readers, so much so that many critics now read it as a satire of the sentimental views it espouses.}