{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
When sentimental literature is attached to the marriage plot, the conflict is no longer between feeling and money, but between feeling and familial duty. In Percy, the message of The Vicar of Wakefield \'97 that virtue has its rewards in futurity, and usually incurs greater distresses on earth \'97 is presented without an escapist reversal of fortune at the end. At the outset of the play, Elwina has submitted to her duty uncomplainingly, and married a man to whom she is indifferent, but her husband attempts to demand that she love him, too. As in The Vicar of Wakefield, the most effective balm for distress is a knowledge of one\'92s own virtuous superiority. However, the outcome of this marriage of duty perhaps explains why the lovers in The Sicilian Lover are so eager to murder hordes of infants rather than betray their vows to each other: feeling is the one thing which cannot be commanded, and Elwina\'92s virtue is insufficient to save those whom she loves. Instead, her triumph is to actually die rather than compromise herself. The pleasure in her virtue comes in her vindication, as the men who cruelly constrained her admit aloud the impossibility of her position and praise her resistance. As a play, Percy addresses a society rather than an individual sufferer: as such, its concluding moral is a warning to tyrants not to overstep their powers.}