{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In A Simple Story, feeling must battle both money and duty. Inchbald tries to work out how one is supposed to go about acquiring the mental resources necessary to discipline feeling, and reaches the disheartening answer that is cannot be done without distress. The novel\'92s decidedly un-simple two-part structure depicts a sentimental love story that results in a gothic one. The story appears to promise the reform of a sensible, fashionable woman into the happy wife of a sensible, refined gentleman: their high-strung feelings lead them into misunderstandings and difficulties of various sorts, but with the intervention of a friend they acknowledge their love to each other and, with no conflicting duties, this leads immediately to a marriage. However, in the gap between volume two and volume three, seventeen years elapse, in which our flighty heroine lacks the mental resources to deal with boredom and has an affair, and our stern hero lacks the mental resources to master his grief and becomes a tyrant. In the second go-round, the young orphan is raised in terrified solitude, hiding from her father in her own house, and Matilda, unlike Miss Milner, learns \'93to suffer like a heroine\'94; the appropriate pastimes are to stay at home, feeling ill-done-by by one\'92s guardians, and read novels. Udolpho will in a few years teach Emily that the appropriate response to tyranny is submission, but not appeasement; Matilda learns this lesson too. The gothic education she recieves serves her well enough to form a sedate, friendly attachment to her cousin and to concede to a marriage when he asks for it. It is hard to feel entirely comfortable with this marriage, especially with Percy in mind, but the novel assures us that we have \'93every reason to suppose that their wedded life, was\'97a life of happiness.\'94 Responses to the novel often say that it confusingly lacks a moral, because its moral is so contradictory to expectations: Miss Milner\'92s father would have done better to have left her poor; wealth is not respectable on its own; in other words, like Dr Primrose, we ought to rush off to debtor\'92s prison at the first opportunity and refuse all temptations to leave. This moral is made fairly explicit, but is also conceptually rejected out of the sense that 
\i surely
\i0  Inchbald can\'92t have meant 
\i that
\i0  \'97 though it is no less than what Jesus says. Again, as in both Wakefield and Percy, the knowledge of one\'92s own virtue is the greatest pleasure in life, and submission to tyranny the best way to acquire it.}