{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This discussion of virtue and distress allows a complex discussion of Matthew Lewis\'92s challenging monodrama, The Captive. The play overwhelms because it uses the systems of sensibility to engage its audience\'92s feelings at the highest pitch, and then destroys the accepted systems of that framework. The eponymous heroine is at the peak of sensible distress: imprisoned in physical distress like Dr Primrose, misbelieved like Elwina, mistreated by someone who is meant to care for her like Matilda. Her virtue, in this context, seems self-evident through her distress. She employs her mental resources to confirm her superiority to her circumstances; she recalls her familial ties. But her attempt to disavow her circumstances begins to slide into delusion. And then, after a highly metaphotical/aestheticized \'91fading hope\'92 moment watching a fading light, her performance is interrupted with violence. The moment responsible for the majority of the fainting suring the performance appears to be, essentially, a jump scare: the madman is dragged away, the captive relaxes, and then he suddenly reappears in a different part of the stage \'97 presumably with a dramatic sting of music and a bright light. This sudden fear is not the kind of distress which sensibility can resist; the captive and the audience both are too sensitized. The captive\'92s madness is not an aesthetic, vindicated madness like Elwina\'92s; it is not borne of inner conflict or her situation; it is a bodily experience which her distress has left her too weak to resist. Even the dumb-show ending, which attempts to present a restoration of familial connection and social norms, can\'92t erase the knowledge of that irrational, overwhelming fear. And thus it is \'93too horrible for representation\'94: it cannot be aestheticized into an ethical experience, dealing as it does with distress which virtue cannot resist.}