{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
For a work to successfully provide the pleasurable aesthetic experience of \'93virtue in distress,\'94 it must articulate compelling ethical definitions of both \'93distress\'94 and \'93virtue.\'94 The literature of sensibility \'97 which I take to encompass sentimental literature through its evolution into the gothic \'97 is thus engaged in a constant negotiation regarding the failure points of its own convictions. The premise of sensibility is a valuation of feeling, but feeling easily amplifies distress and, when it conflicts with duty, impedes virtue.\
In The Vicar of Wakefield, feeling is used as an alternative value system to money. As the Primrose family grows poorer and poorer, this proves their love stronger and stronger. It is only money which conflicts with duty, never feeling, as when Primrose refuses to sign away his daughter\'92s reputation even to escape debtor\'92s prison. The novel thus articulates a kind of virtue which consists in endurance of and mental superiority to the attacks of others. The pleasure of this virtue comes in a sense of vindication. When Primrose converts his fellow prisoners, for example, the narrative emphasis is on how well he rises above their crude insults, rather than on his message; by contrast with Hannah More, we can see that the focus is on the pleasure of a comfortable reader identifying with Primroses\'92s persecution, rather than on persuasively presenting correct opinions. After extensively discussing the fact that virtue\'92s rewards are all in the afterlife and not on earth, the novel enters a rapid reversal-of-fortunes phase that is almost as dramatic as the preceding thirty chapters of escalating misery: Sir William Thornhill arrives as a messianic figure who has been watching the Primrose family in moral guise and will now administer wide-reaching justice. The more difficult ethical lesson in the novel is its mercy: its religious message defers all punishment to the afterlife, and holds that no one is past reform, and so its final reversal of fortune is very mild for the novel\'92s former tyrants. Although the novel was initially successful on these aesthetic terms, as its definition of \'93virtue\'94 lost its persuasiveness, it soon began to seem embarassingly over-earnest to readers, so much so that many critics now read it as a satire of the sentimental views it espouses.\
When sentimental literature is attached to the marriage plot, the conflict is no longer between feeling and money, but between feeling and familial duty. In Percy, the message of The Vicar of Wakefield \'97 that virtue has its rewards in futurity, and usually incurs greater distresses on earth \'97 is presented without an escapist reversal of fortune at the end. At the outset of the play, Elwina has submitted to her duty uncomplainingly, and married a man to whom she is indifferent, but her husband attempts to demand that she love him, too. As in The Vicar of Wakefield, the most effective balm for distress is a knowledge of one\'92s own virtuous superiority. However, the outcome of this marriage of duty perhaps explains why the lovers in The Sicilian Lover are so eager to murder hordes of infants rather than betray their vows to each other: feeling is the one thing which cannot be commanded, and Elwina\'92s virtue is insufficient to save those whom she loves. Instead, her triumph is to actually die rather than compromise herself. The pleasure in her virtue comes in her vindication, as the men who cruelly constrained her admit aloud the impossibility of her position and praise her resistance. As a play, Percy addresses a society rather than an individual sufferer: as such, its concluding moral is a warning to tyrants not to overstep their powers.\
In A Simple Story, feeling must battle both money and duty. Inchbald tries to work out how one is supposed to go about acquiring the mental resources necessary to discipline feeling, and reaches the disheartening answer that is cannot be done without distress. The novel\'92s decidedly un-simple two-part structure depicts a sentimental love story that results in a gothic one. The story appears to promise the reform of a sensible, fashionable woman into the happy wife of a sensible, refined gentleman: their high-strung feelings lead them into misunderstandings and difficulties of various sorts, but with the intervention of a friend they acknowledge their love to each other and, with no conflicting duties, this leads immediately to a marriage. However, in the gap between volume two and volume three, seventeen years elapse, in which our flighty heroine lacks the mental resources to deal with boredom and has an affair, and our stern hero lacks the mental resources to master his grief and becomes a tyrant. In the second go-round, the young orphan is raised in terrified solitude, hiding from her father in her own house, and Matilda, unlike Miss Milner, learns \'93to suffer like a heroine\'94; the appropriate pastimes are to stay at home, feeling ill-done-by by one\'92s guardians, and read novels. Udolpho will in a few years teach Emily that the appropriate response to tyranny is submission, but not appeasement; Matilda learns this lesson too. The gothic education she recieves serves her well enough to form a sedate, friendly attachment to her cousin and to concede to a marriage when he asks for it. It is hard to feel entirely comfortable with this marriage, especially with Percy in mind, but the novel assures us that we have \'93every reason to suppose that their wedded life, was\'97a life of happiness.\'94 Responses to the novel often say that it confusingly lacks a moral, because its moral is so contradictory to expectations: Miss Milner\'92s father would have done better to have left her poor; wealth is not respectable on its own; in other words, like Dr Primrose, we ought to rush off to debtor\'92s prison at the first opportunity and refuse all temptations to leave. This moral is made fairly explicit, but is also conceptually rejected out of the sense that 
\i surely
\i0  Inchbald can\'92t have meant 
\i that
\i0  \'97 though it is no less than what Jesus says. Again, as in both Wakefield and Percy, the knowledge of one\'92s own virtue is the greatest pleasure in life, and submission to tyranny the best way to acquire it.\
This discussion of virtue and distress allows a complex discussion of Matthew Lewis\'92s challenging monodrama, The Captive. The play overwhelms because it uses the systems of sensibility to engage its audience\'92s feelings at the highest pitch, and then destroys the accepted systems of that framework. The eponymous heroine is at the peak of sensible distress: imprisoned in physical distress like Dr Primrose, misbelieved like Elwina, mistreated by someone who is meant to care for her like Matilda. Her virtue, in this context, seems self-evident through her distress. She employs her mental resources to confirm her superiority to her circumstances; she recalls her familial ties. But her attempt to disavow her circumstances begins to slide into delusion. And then, after a highly metaphotical/aestheticized \'91fading hope\'92 moment watching a fading light, her performance is interrupted with violence. The moment responsible for the majority of the fainting suring the performance appears to be, essentially, a jump scare: the madman is dragged away, the captive relaxes, and then he suddenly reappears in a different part of the stage \'97 presumably with a dramatic sting of music and a bright light. This sudden fear is not the kind of distress which sensibility can resist; the captive and the audience both are too sensitized. The captive\'92s madness is not an aesthetic, vindicated madness like Elwina\'92s; it is not borne of inner conflict or her situation; it is a bodily experience which her distress has left her too weak to resist. Even the dumb-show ending, which attempts to present a restoration of familial connection and social norms, can\'92t erase the knowledge of that irrational, overwhelming fear. And thus it is \'93too horrible for representation\'94: it cannot be aestheticized into an ethical experience, dealing as it does with distress which virtue cannot resist.\
Submission may not appeal to contemporary readers as a virtuous response to distress. On its own, it smacks of too little justice; but if a deus ex machina supplies the justice, this feels unsatisfyingly unrealistic. Submission is also certainly politically distateful; it is no surprise that the two religious writers are much more successful at providing the comforts of submission than radical Inchbald and \'93Monk\'94 Lewis. To say that the literature of sensibility constitutes a sustained engagement with the aesthetics and ethics of submission to authority may not, therefore, constitute a serious case \'93for\'94 these texts. But in their central acknowledgement of feeling, they supply a crucial lack in enlightenment discourses on virtue. And in their provision of narrative vindication, they can provide supreme pleasure to the readers who buy their premise.}