{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What ought to be lost in distant reading, I argue, is the sense of a text\'92s inviolability. Many other things can be, and have been, lost in past distant readings \'97 notably, attention to textual provenance \'97 but these do not have to be lost. 
\i Something
\i0  does have to be lost in any model of a text: as Willard McCarty astutely outlines, models are useful because they 
\i don\'92t
\i0  perfectly replicate that which they model. But an individual human\'92s memory of a text, or a set of quotations copied out in a group, are models too, which lose the 
\i wholeness
\i0  of the text in service of human limitations. In many ways, distant reading simply chooses what to lose, and attempts to choose astutely, in accordance with the question at hand, so that the resulting model will simplify away the less-relevant-right-now details in exchange for greater sensitivity to the details under examination. Making these choices means letting go of the idea of the text as an object separate from one\'92s own study of it. Whatever one is attempting to read \'97 whether it is one text or one thousand \'97 one must hard-code the choices one makes about 
\i how
\i0  to read. This requires getting tangled up and messy with one\'92s object of study; it means, ironically, no longer maintaining a polite distance.}