{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In contrast, Smith\'92s \'93On being cautioned\'94 positions her poetic persona as not only the recipient of an alarming tale, but one who pursues that tale intentionally. Some readings of this poem make much hay out of the fact that Smith\'92s encounter with the eponymous lunatic is imagined, but I note that nowhere does she say that the caution she has been given is 
\i successful
\i0 . One can easily read the poem as describing her continued walk toward the precipice. Even if Smith herself did not go, it is in keeping with the poetic persona by which she sold her work for her to imply that she did. Where Wordsworth attempts to remain \'93above\'94 the narratives and feelings he sells, Smith embraces her status as the purveyor of emotion, and therefore dramatizes the incident into as direct an encounter as possible. Smith\'92s poetry is highly-crafted, of course, as the sonnet form demands, but through her craft she cultivates an emotional embrace of direct experience which contrasts strongly with Wordsworth\'92s distancing aestheticization.\
\cb3 Smith alludes to, but does not replicate, the warning she recieves. Wordsworth\'92s speaker eagerly gives a lengthy warning of his own \'97 not to avoid the spot, but to \'93take care and choose your time\'94 to avoid the woman whose presence he then vividly describes. Particularly galling is his advice to \'93Pass by her door\'97\'92tis seldom shut\'97 / And if you see her in her hut\'97\'94 do not greet her or offer assistance, but \'93Then to the spot away!\'94 The speaker\'92s callousness, in his repeated ability to hear misery without sympathy, is obvious in contrast with Smith\'92s perceived commonality with her lunatic: \'93I see him more with envy than with fear; / 
\i He
\i0  has no 
\i nice felicities
\i0  that shrink / From giant horrors.\'94 Wordsworth\'92s speaker and his listener surely shrink, and are, by Smith\'92s framework, blameable.}