{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
That anthologies have selection criteria is not meant to be a surprise, either. But I thought it would be informative to compare the list against a less-curated body of texts. My point of comparison comes from data I have accumulated for my dissertation: the titles of roughly 52,000 words printed in England between the years 1789 to 1799. These titles, then, constitute the public world of letters in the decade leading up to the publication of Lyrical Ballads. Interestingly, this collecton of texts 
\i also
\i0  does not show a power-law distribution. If we include unsigned works, they dominate the corpus so strongly that we diverge from the power-law in the opposite direction: they represent far more than twice the next \'93author\'94. But of course, not all unsigned works are written by Mr. Null, so if we really want to know the most-published individual author, we can exclude them. This time we have three behemoths, all different forms of regular government publications, the third of which also far more than doubles the fourth place author (who, incidentally, is King George III \'97 still the government, but reduced to human scale.) If we exlude all works whose \'93authors\'94 include \'93Great Britain\'94 or \'93England\'94 in their names, we at last see something like the list of individual writers which we hoped for \'97 but now a much flatter curve, and no names which take up prominence in anthologies of Romanticism.\
Of course, this decade is before the full flourishing of Romanticism \'97 if I examined, instead, years during which 
\i Don Juan
\i0  was being published, it is possible that Byron would be visible. But it is also the case that, as William St. Clair has excellently demonstrated, Wordsworth intentionally sought to differentiate his work and its methods of sale from the mass pamphlet production which puts Thomas Paine and Hannah More at the top of this list.}