{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Wordsworth\'92s intentional avoidance of mass print, however, does not prevent us from reading \'93The Thorn\'94 again against another poem making use of gothic materials: Hannah More\'92s \'93Robert and Richard, or, the ghost of poor Molly, who was drowned in Richard\'92s mill pond.\'94 More promises a ghost in the title of this Cheap Repository Tract, likely knowing that it would be competing for sale with other ghost stories among the chapbook hawkers that she used to distribute her Cheap Repository Tracts. More often uses titles in order to attract what she considers \'93bad readers\'94 toward good texts in disguise; her series \'93The Two Shoemakers,\'94 for example, often makes promises about the ill doings of Jack Brown in prison, to compete with popular true crime narratives, and her evangelical tract \'93The Cottage Cook; Or, Mrs. Jones\'92 Cheap Dishes\'94 could easily have been mistaken for one of her actual cook books. Similarly, the ghost in \'93Robert and Richard\'94 is relegated to the sidelines of a rhyming song about Richard who laughs off his misdeeds with \'93what harm is in this?\'94 and Robert who reminds him to \'93remember the end.\'94 When Molly appears, she is seduced, impregnated, abandoned, and mysteriously found drowned with her baby in the eponymous mill-pond in about X lines. She then rapidly haunts Richard into an early death. But the conclusion of the poem returns its attention to Robert, who mourns his friend\'92s misdeeds and death, and erects a tombstone for him with a moralizing epitaph. More, like Wordsworth, uses the marketability of ghost stories to sell her readers on moral improvement, but although she does her selling far more explicity, she delivers far fewer actual gothic thrills. The ghost is present, but More dedicates no poetic attention to making her spectral appearance scary or even interesting, in striking contrast to the haunting image of the baby\'92s reflected face in \'93The Thorn.\'94 As a counter to popular superstition, then, More\'92s work is far more in accordance with her stated aims than Wordswoth\'92s. When Wordsworth made his ballads into 
\i lyrical
\i0  ballads [is The Thorn a ballad?], comparison with Smith and More shows, he claimed a popular working-class form, disavowed the original speakers of his material, and placed his creation intentionally out of reach of the people he profited from disdaining.}