{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In 
\i The Vicar of Wakefield
\i0 , feeling is used as an alternative value system to money. As the Primrose family grows poorer and poorer, this proves their love stronger and stronger. Despite its escalating cavalcade of miseries, which to modern readers take on a comic tone in their excesses, the novel presents no conflict. It is only material comfort which conflicts with duty, never feeling, as when Primrose refuses to sign away his daughter\'92s reputation even to escape debtor\'92s prison, thus making Primrose\'92s path to virtue always clear to him. Accordingly, even as he complains that he is too old and injured to journey through the snow to debtor\'92s prison in the middle of the night, he instructs his family to prepare for their relocation as quickly as possible, confident that he has identified the only correct course of action and eager to pursue it immediately.\
Some of Primrose\'92s most stirring sermons, in favour of the monarchy in chapter 20 and against capital punishment in chapter 27, lay out extended critiques of wealth. His argument for the monarchy is particularly unusual: its overall tone is jocular, but its central insight is compelling. \'93It is the interest of the great,\'94 he argues, \'93to diminish kingly power as much as possible; because whatever they take from that is naturally restored to themselves.\'94 Rather than improving the life of the common people, increasing the power of individual citizens creates a system \'93where the laws govern the poor, and the rich govern the law.\'94 The accumulation of wealth is inherently suspect, both requiring and creating tyranny.}