{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The novel\'92s decidedly un-simple two-part structure depicts a sentimental love story that results in a gothic one. The story appears to promise the reform of a sensible, fashionable woman into the happy wife of a sensible, refined gentleman. Together they bear up under the distresses of their marriage plot by virtue of their deep feeling. Miss Milner, in particular, is attentively monitored for signs of vice, but demonstrates obedience by refraining from forbidden amusements, even when her guardian-lover Dorriforth has abandoned his trust in her. However, in the gap between volume two and volume three, they are undone by their respective vanity and temper, not reformed after all.\
The characters\'92 mistake seems to have been an unwillingness to face their acknowledge the strength of their feelings, which prevents them from responding to them appropriately, and leads them into complicated and uncomfortable deceptions. When Miss Milner avows a false passion for Lord Frederick, or when Dorriforth very nearly marries the blank and dutiful Miss Fenton, for example, they spend weeks in miserable confusion. Dorriforth\'92s constant refrain is \'93How am I to accomplish her wishes? What am I to do? How can I judge, if she will not confide in me, but thus for ever deceive me?\'94 (II.III)\
Chapter one of volume three recounts the fact of their transformations breathlessly, but with no interest in \'93the progression by which vice gains a predominancy in the heart\'94: they lack the crucial mental resources to resist their respective boredom and anger, and thus they are doomed to take on the roles of the gothic mother who dies rejected and the gothic father who tyrannizes his daughter.}