{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If this is so, it is so not because Matilda and Rushworth act fundamentally different from their predecessors \'97 it works because they both, and especially Matilda, now have such lowered expectations that, in accordance with 
\i Wakefield
\i0 \'92s doctrine that pleasure is increased by the contrast with suffering, the same outcome constitutes a greater satisfaction for both of them. Unlike Miss Milner, Matilda is \'93\cf2 \cb3 [e]ducated in the school of adversity,\'94 which means that \'93inured to retirement from her infancy, she had acquired a taste for all those amusements which a recluse life affords.\'94 \cf0 \cb1 In other words, Matilda, unlike Miss Milner, learns \'93to suffer like a heroine,\'94 as 
\i Udolpho
\i0  will define the task a few years later. Emily St. Aubert\'92s education in 
\i Udolpho
\i0  shares with 
\i A Simple Story
\i0  a conviction that unregulated feeling is dangerous. In tension with this mistrust of feeling, however, is the tightrope Emily walks in her carefully-measured submission to her circumstances. Early in her imprisonent in the castle of Udolpho, Emily attempts to persuade her aunt to give in to Montoni\'92s demands. All Montoni has demanded is her money; to give in would not betray her virtue. Her aunt resists, and dies as Emily predicts; when Emily herself is offered the same choice, she signs the papers given to her by Montoni, in exchange for her freedom to live in what the narrative deems poverty in France. Montoni, however, has no incentive to uphold his promise, and Emily no power to resist him. Appeasement\'97 the action Dr. Primrose refused to even consider\'97 is proven to be useless. From this point, Emily proceeds from the assumption that she cannot directly act to improve her circumstances. Her strategy becomes one of outer meekness but inner resistance, enduring her distresses by frequent retreat to soothing views and other distractions, but always refusing to cede ground within her own mind. The impenetrable final boundary of the mind is a valuable retreat for the gothic heroine at the height of distress: more than one heroine has made it to the very altar of a forced wedding, her only comfort her own refusal to say \'93yes\'94 aloud. A gothic education in the school of adveristy, then, prepares Matilda to be emotionally self-sufficient with astonishingly little care shown toward her from her guardians, to submit calmly, and not to expect improvement in her circumstances.}