{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Responses to the novel often say that its conclusion is ambiguous or confusing, because its most obvious conclusion is unpalatable.\
Like Wakefield, Simple Story presents a critique of wealth which can extend to a disavowal of the possession of wealth itself: \'93\cf2 \cb3 What is it makes wealth valuable? Is it the pleasures of the table? the pleasure of living in a fine house? or of wearing fine cloaths? These are pleasures, a Lord enjoys, but in common with his valet. It is the pleasure of being conspicuous, which makes riches desirable; but if we are conspicuous only for our vice and folly, had we not better remain in poverty?\'94 \cf0 \cb1 \
And indeed, the final lines are not entirely sanguine that full happiness is possible, but explictly ties its optimism to a rejection of wealth:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi360\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf4 \cb5 \'93what may not be hoped from that school of prudence\'97though of adversity\'97in which Matilda was bred?\
And Mr. Milner, Matilda's grandfather, had better have given his fortune to a distant branch of his family\'97as Matilda's father once meant to do\'97so that he had given to his daughter\
A PROPER EDUCATION\'94\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Janet Todd says \'93surely misfortune is not the kind of \'91proper education\'92 that Inchbald would recommend a father to provide for his daughter,\'94 but the evidence provided suggests that, even if one would not wish to pursue distress, experiencing it is the the only way to form a strength of character.\cf0 \cb1  To acknowledge and fully experience unpleasant feelings and circumstances is the only healthy response to them. Like Dr Primrose, we ought to run, not walk, to debtor\'92s prison.}