{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Wakefield
\i0  and 
\i Simple Story
\i0  both provide a safe ground within with their audiences can practice embracing misery, and have that misery vindicated and comfortably resolved.\cf0 \cb1 Matthew Lewis\'92s challenging monodrama, 
\i The Captive
\i0 , begins from the same expectations, but betrays its audiences trust into an overwhelming experience. The play overwhelms because it uses the systems of sensibility to engage its audience\'92s feelings at the highest pitch, and then destroys the accepted boundaries of that framework. The eponymous heroine is at the peak of sensible distress: imprisoned in physical distress like Dr Primrose, mistreated by someone who is meant to care for her like Matilda. Her virtue, in this context, seems self-evident through her distress. She employs her mental resources to confirm her superiority to her circumstances; she recalls her familial ties. But her attempt to disavow her circumstances begins to slide into delusion. And then, after a highly metaphotical/aestheticized \'91fading hope\'92 moment watching a dimming light, her performance is interrupted with violence. The moment responsible for the majority of the fainting during the performance appears to be, essentially, a jump scare: the madman is dragged away, the captive relaxes, and then he suddenly reappears in a different part of the stage \'97 presumably with a dramatic sting of music and a bright light. This sudden fear is not the kind of distress which sensibility can resist; the captive and the audience both are too sensitized. \
It is the 
\i kind
\i0  of madness that matters here: actresses have going mad on stage since 1660, and even when they inspire tears and fainting fits, this is seen as a success. A contrast with Elwina\'92s madness in Hannah More\'92s 
\i Percy
\i0  is instructive. Elwina dies, on its surface a much worse outcome than the nameless captive\'92s ultimate rescue, but in the context of the tragedy Elwina\'92s death has a seed of satisfaction in it. The captive\'92s madness is not an aesthetic, vindicated madness like Elwina\'92s; it is not borne of inner conflict or her situation; it is a bodily experience which her distress has left her too weak to resist. \
Even the dumb-show ending, which attempts to present a restoration of familial connection and social norms, can\'92t erase the knowledge of that irrational, overwhelming fear. And thus it is \'93too horrible for representation\'94: it cannot be aestheticized into an ethical experience, dealing as it does with distress which virtue cannot resist.}