{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What is to be lost in distant reading, I argue, is the reification of individual glorious texts. By reification I refer both to the idea that a text is a stable, immutable object separate from one\'92s study of it, and to the idea that a monolithic text may transcend its context in its singular importance. As \'93losses\'94 go, these are utopian ambitions rather than definitional prerequisites for distant reading, and by no means the exclusive territory of computational research. Indeed, many existing distant readings have opted to lose instead, for example, the burden of meaningful interpretation, the details of textual provenance, or even accountability for one\'92s interventions into the text. \cb1 Something does have to be lost in any model of a text: as Willard McCarty astutely outlines, models are useful because they 
\i don\'92t
\i0  perfectly replicate that which they model; it is their reduced scale and complexity which renders them tractable in a way their originals aren\'92t. The pragmatics of modelling hold true whether one\'92s model is computational or the more traditional literary model of a selection of textual excerpts united by a narrative. The opportunity offered by computational distant reading, however, is a chance to fully articulate and manipulate the boundaries of the model one has chosen. I strive to take this opportunity to embrace literary study as a process of collaboration with one\'92s materials, and literary history as a project of radically expanding their context. It is the latter project of literary history, resisting the idea of singularly important texts, which will occupy my engagement with the practice of distant reading for the remainder of this paper.\cb3 \
Rejecting the reification of individual texts does not go comfortably hand-in-hand with answering a question with reference to three literary works. \cb1 It is, of course, possible to apply distant-reading techniques invidual texts \'97 I have done it often \'97 but distant reading is at its most exciting when it uses its distance to bring more objects into view simultaneously than can easily be considered at once using other methods. However, a classic \'93compromise\'94 use of distant reading is to use it as a \'93finding aid\'94 to be paired with close reading. Turning my attention to the current construction of Romanticism as a field, therefore, I use distant reading to find a central Romantic figure to examine, and two points of comparison with which to contextualize him. My methods lead me first to William Wordsworth \'97 not a surprising central figure \'97 and then, perhaps less conventionally, to Charlotte Smith and Hannah More.}