{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Of course, shuffling around a few authors does not address the core problem. Katherine Bode calls for scholarly editions of literary systems. I\'92m intrigued by Philip Cox\'92s chronological edition of Keats, which mixes letters and poems. The question of anthology and teaching is not one to be solved here, or it would be solved already, and there are real reasons for anthologies to be organized he way they are \'97 I initially scoffed at an online review of the Broadview anthology\'92s tendency to distribute authors throughout the volume, approving of their editorial decision, until I was in the position of trying to look things up and struggled. But even a discussion of selection methods would be an improvement.\
The \'93canon\'94 has always been an artificial invention to serve the agenda of a generation. What this means is not that we must burn the Norton anthology, but that we should thoughtfully begin again each time our agenda changes. As I mentioned above, tokenism 
\i works
\i0 : the recapture of Frankenstein is an excellent example.\
My anthological priorities move away from the self-defined central concepts of Romanticism \'97 the individual genius, and so on. Because I think there is moreto be learned from literature when we\cb1  lose textual immutability and textual inviduality.}