{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Anthologies represent the simplified models of a literary period which their editors believe is best-suited to introduce high school and undergraduate students to that period. These models are not \'93distant reading\'94 models, since they do not attempt to draw conclusions about the anthologized texts as a corpus; instead, teachers are expected to select the subset of texts which suit their particular needs and supply the gap between the anthology and \'93Romanticism\'94 by contextualizing and close-reading a series of individual works. I nonetheless call each anthology a \'93model\'94 to capture the fact that it is an intentional simplification of what is understood to be a more complex original whole, and its process of simplification operates under predictable priorities and constraints. The key priority of an anthology is teachability; its key constraint is length. Examining the number of pages an anthology allots to various subject matter can thus reveal what is considers most crucial to be taught.\
For my experiment, I examined the tables of contents of three major anthologies of Romanticism: the Norton anthology (9
\fs22 \super th
\fs32 \nosupersub  edition), the Longman anthology (3
\fs22 \super rd
\fs32 \nosupersub  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3A531DA3-0051-41B3-9402-979FB0FFE81E"}}{\fldrslt edition),}} and the Broadview anthology (2
\fs22 \super nd
\fs32 \nosupersub  edition). I calculated the number of pages each anthology dedicates to each author it includes. Bettina Fischer-Starcke\'92s corpus stylistics approach to literary analysis introduces a methodological assumption key to linguistics as a field: she phrases it as \'93[t]he more frequently a linguistic pattern occurs, the more significant it is for the content and the structure of the data,\'94 an assumption which runs directly counter to close reading\'92s preference for highly-significant outliers as key sources of meaning. In this context, Fischer-Starcke\'92s assumption translates to the idea that Romanticism, as defined by anthologies, will be defined by the subjects to which it dedicates the most pages. Since, in all three anthologies, the sections organized around individual authors far outweigh the \'93contexts\'94 or \'93perspectives\'94 sections organized historical events of ideas, this means our model of Romanticism will be small group of important people.\
Specifically, we learn that Romanticism is 12% Wordsworth by volume. He only barely edges out Byron, who also rounds to 12%. Wordsworth, Byron, Percy Shelley, Coleridge, Keats, and Mary {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://286A6FB8-A67A-4808-B566-752CFD3B54D4"}}{\fldrslt Shelley}} together account for half of Romanticism; everybody else combined constitute the other half. This is, of course, the \'93big six,\'94 but with William Blake in 8
\fs22 \super th
\fs32 \nosupersub  place, after Mary Wollstonecraft, slightly outnumbered by women who wrote works that are longer and less visual.\
[CHART HERE]\
My description of this model is not meant to surprise, but it does, I think, highlight the uncomfortable strategies necessary to reconcile a broadening canon with what William St. Clair calls the \'93parade of authors\'94 structure of literary history. To counteract the promulgation of a masculinist Romanticism, but remain \'93teachable,\'94 these anthologies largely keep their original canon, but supplement it with \'93nearby\'94 women. Tokenism as a strategy can in fact be quite effective, but would be more effective if the women selected were presented as less contingent on the established men.}