{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The \'93virtue\'94 presented in 
\i Wakefield
\i0  seems calculated for readers to enjoy identifying with Primrose\'92s clear moral superiority. \cf0 \cb1 Despite its escalating cavalcade of miseries, which to modern readers take on a comic tone in their excesses, the novel presents no conflict. It is only material comfort which conflicts with duty, never feeling, thus making Primrose\'92s path to virtue always clear to him. When Primrose is presented with unpalatable paperwork like a proto-heroine, for example, he is never tempted to sign away his daughter\'92s reputation even to escape debtor\'92s prison, and must be tricked. Accordingly, even as he complains that he is too old and injured to journey through the snow to debtor\'92s prison in the middle of the night, he instructs his family to prepare for their relocation as quickly as possible, confident that he has identified the only correct course of action and eager to pursue it immediately. The clarity of his moral purpose allows Primrose a narratively satisfying righteousness. He \cf2 \cb3 is provided with cutting retorts and eloquent speeches that satisfyingly cut down strawman opponents, and his consolations have at their core always a conviction of his own correctness. This conviction is obnoxious when we disagree with his moral values, but to a sympathetic reader can provide an opening to read into his suffering all of the reader\'92s own personal distresses, and to provide the reader with the satisfaction of vindication.\
That 
\i Wakefield
\i0  is aimed at a largely comfortable audience, but one interested in imagining its own discomforts, is suggested in the prison conversion scene that takes place in chapters 26 and 27. \cf0 \cb1 The narrative emphasis in always on Primrose\'92s personal nobility, rather than his message: in chapter 27, he describes in extensive detail four different tricks played upon him by prisoners who mock his sermon, and assures us that he \'93took no notice of all that this mischievous group of little beings could do,\'94 but none of the sermon itself is included. The reader is thus expected to already be familiar with Primrose\'92s moral message, and is positioned as superior to but suffering nobly in the service of the prisoners. The scene is thus of a very different nature than the prison conversion in Hannah More\'92s 
\i The Two Shoemakers
\i0 . More\'92s version which begins with a character\'92s insistence that he is not going to give a sermon, but then consists of a detailed religious message urging personal reform. The differing emphasis reinforces 
\i Wakefield
\i0 \'92s distance from the sufferings it claims to provide a solution to: More\'92s 
\i Cheap Repository Tracts
\i0 , if they did not circulate within prisons, were certainly intended to reach those for whom prison was a very near concern \'97 whereas the sermon Goldsmith 
\i does
\i0  include in chapter 27 is a philosophical argument for legislative reform of the prison system, aimed at those who cause rather than endure imprisonment.}