{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Primrose delivers this sermon, and then immediately in the next chapter the \cf0 \cb1 novel proceeds to provide all of the pleasures and rewards which it has lectured readers not to expect. Sir William Thornhill arrives as a messianic figure who has been watching the Primrose family in mortal guise and will now administer wide-reaching justice. The satisfaction of vindication and the comfort of material security flood into the narrative in a reversal of fortune as easy to laugh at as Primrose\'92s original accumulation of miseries. Where the main body of the novel saw, for example, Primrose\'92s son dragged into prison bloody and fettered while Primrose is mid-sentence expressing delight at his safety, the conclusion must constantly interrupt the resolution of one problem with the resolution of another. In one particularly dense moment, Primrose descibes that \'93We now sate down to dinner, which was almost cold; but previously, my arm still continuing painful, Sir William wrote a prescription, for he had made the study of physic his amusement\'94: the dinner, intended as a resolution for their acute hunger, has been delayed by the arrival of a daughter reported to be dead, and the narrator can barely remember the order in which lucky happenstances materialize to cure his ills. \
As a resolution, this reversal of fortune may, perhaps, be generously interpreted as a \'93preview\'94 of the terms of divine justice, with an important reminder regarding mercy. The novel\'92s religious message defers all punishment to the afterlife, and holds that no one is past reform, and so its final reversal of fortune stymies any thirst for revenge among its readers. The con man who financially ruined Primrose\'92s family, when discovered as a fellow prisoner, is promptly forgiven and embraced as a friend despite his lack of repentance. Squire Thornhill, who has tyrannized the Primrose family for most of the novel, is initially exposed and mocked \'97 his lackeys tell him to his face how much they dislike him, and his uncle humbles and disciplines him \'97 but rather than being utterly ruined, he is sent to the country to live as the companion to a relative, \'93being very well liked,\'94 amusing his melancholy cousing, and \'93learning to blow the French-horn.\'94 As a narrative comeuppance this resolution is lacking. Most strikingly, Primrose hints that \'93when he reforms\'94 his daughter, his legal wife, \'93she may be brought to relent.\'94 These moments present emotional difficulties to modern readers and may well and been important correctives for readers of the period. But they do not detract from the incredible happiness of the novel\'92s final chapters, which seem to have decided not to make its readers wait until the afterlife to enjoy poetic justice.}