{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93ESTC\'92s most basic bibliographical function is to provide, for each edition, a description of the ideal copy, meaning the most complete and correct manifestation of that edition as the printer and publisher intended it\'94 (Tabor 369).\
\
An Edition:\
\'93Because ESTC is a bibliographical database rather than a catalogue, strictly speaking, its records describe groups of copies,\'94 such as editions, \'93rather than specific copies,\'94 such as the Exeter Book (Tabor 369). The ESTC sometimes has separate entries for groups within an edition \'93when certain separately planned marketing units can be identified within the edition, such as reissues, imprint variants, and large versus regular-paper copies\'94 (Tabor 369). Or, in \'93the later eighteenth century, when reprints from standing type became more common, ESTC cataloguers have occasionally granularized down to the level of individual impressions\'94 (Tabor 369). Tabor and I both deem the term \'93edition\'94 a sufficient umbrella term \'93[f]or the purpose of this discussion\'94 (Tabor 369).\
\'93The first problem relates to the unit of classification. A clearly defined unit is necessary to ensure that a study of change over time is reliable and based on consistent terms. What is the unit that the ESTC uses? Scholars sometimes answer by using the terms \'93edition,\'94 \'93issue,\'94 or \'93title\'94 interchangeably. But since the ESTC does not rely in a consistent manner on any of these terms for its unit of classification, one should refer instead only to the ESTC record, a unit created by the ESTC and having no meaning outside the ESTC.\'94 (Karian 289)\
\'93For the most part, the ESTC contains a record for each issue\'94 (Karian 289) \'93Sometimes the ESTC contains additional records if there are multiple 
\i states
\i0  of an edition (a different state results from cancels or minor changes to the setting of type).\'94 (Karian 289)\
\
An Ideal Copy:\
\'93As additional reports of copies arrive, it may be that the ideal description must change in response. For instance, the existence of a half-title may only emerge on the evidence of the seventh copy reported. A half-title would then be added to the description of the ideal copy, and the six previously matched physical copies will receive notes recording that they are imperfect in this respect\'94 (Tabor 370).\
\'93In ESTC the matching process hinges on five points of identity: the title, as far as it is given by ESTC; the edition statement; the imprint, again as far as it is given by ESTC; the pagination; and the format\'94 (Tabor 370).}