{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Elizabeth Inchbald\'92s 
\i A Simple Story
\i0  (1791) has an entirely different political and moral agenda from 
\i Wakefield
\i0 , but engages with similar problems of mental superiority and the embrace of misery. The novel is presented as a testing-ground for ideas of personal reform and educaton. It attempts to determine how one is meant to acquire the strength of mind necessary for virtue, and reaches the uncomfortable conclusion that it cannot be done without distress. \cf0 \cb1 The novel\'92s decidedly un-simple two-part structure depicts a sentimental love story that results in a gothic one. The first half appears to promise the reform of a sensible, fashionable woman into the happy wife of a sensible, refined gentleman. However, in the gap between volume two and volume three, they are undone by their respective vanity and temper. The second half of the novel, structurally at least, promises a corrective to Miss Milner\'92s and Dorriforth\'92s missteps, in their daughter Matilda\'92s marriage plot with her cousin Rushworth. The novel\'92s fulfillment of this promise is ambiguous at best, however. }