{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c20000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93THE POPULARITY OF ENGLISH RENAISSANCE PRINTED PLAYS declined dramatically in 1997. For most of the twentieth century, scholars had asserted that plays were a successful portion of the book trade, yielding a predictable profit for publishers.\'94 (1)\
\'93Since 1997, however, Shakespeareans have tended to argue a position just the opposite of this received wisdom. Printed plays, it is now maintained, were \'93risky business ventures\'94 in which publishers, who \'93in most cases had little or nothing to gain from playbooks,\'94 were \'93understandably reluctant\'94 to invest.\'94 (1)\
\
\'93This shift in scholarly thinking can be dated to Peter W. M. Blayney\'92s landmark article,\'93The Publication of Playbooks,\'94 cited by all of the authors quoted above\'94 (2)\
\
\'93He argues instead that new plays\'93never accounted for a very significant fraction of the trade in English books,\'94 comprising between 1.2 percent and 1.6 percent of the entries in the ShortTitle Catalogue from 1583 to 1642.\'94 (3)\
\'93From 1583 to 1602, \'93only\'94 48 percent of first editions were reprinted within twenty-five years; from 1603 to 1622, the figure is just over 50 percent; from 1623 to 1642, less than 29 percent.17 \'93Fewer than 21 percent of the plays published in the sixty years under discussion reached a second edition inside nine years\'94; this / means, he argues, that \'93no more than one play in five would have returned the publisher\'92s initial investment inside five years.\'94 (3-4)\
\
\'93Whereas much early-twentieth-century bibliographic scholarship was impressionistic and based on 
\i a priori
\i0  assumptions about the popularity of printed drama, Blayney provides a detailed statistical analysis of the market for printed plays as evidence against the \'93myth\'94 of the popularity of playbooks. But, like all previous arguments about the popularity of playbooks, Blayney\'92s is flawed at a fundamental level because it does not systematically compare the market performance of playbooks to that of other kinds of books.\'94 (4)\
\

\b \'93
\i popularity
\i0  is 
\i ipso facto
\i0  a relative term\'94 (4)
\b0 \
\
\'93Using the same four criteria that Blayney employs\'97total number of editions, market share, frequency of reprinting, and profitability\'97but extending his research to include comparisons with other kinds of books, we will argue that playbooks were, in fact, far more popular than Blayney contends. While the myth of piracy is false, the \'93myth\'94 of playbook popularity happens to be true.\'94 (4)\
\'93Blayney judges best-sellers by total number of editions within twenty-five years of first publication\'94 (4)\
\'93as we will argue, the ShortTitle Catalogue (STC) in its entirety is far too broad to serve this function\'94 (4)\
\
\'93
\b The criterion that brings us closest to consumer demand is the rate of reprinting of playbooks
\b0 , since a publisher\'92s decision to reprint can usually be assumed to indicate both that the previous edition had sold out (or was about to sell out) and that the publisher anticipated continued demand for the book.\'94 (5)\
\'93Admittedly, reprint rates tell us neither the number of individual copies bought and sold nor the total capital invested in or profits earned from the sale of plays\'94 (5)\
\'93We can, though, estimate profitability, as we do later in the essay, by using sheet lengths as a gauge for comparing the likely profits of a typical playbook with those of other kinds of books. Used in conjunction with profitability estimates, market share, and total editions, reprint rates can provide our best indication of the kind of popularity in which most of us are interested\'97the popularity of books with customers.\'94 (6)\
\
\'93Plays were, in fact, among the most successful books in which an early modern stationer could choose to invest. They turned a profit more reliably than most other types of books, and this profit would not have been paltry\'94 (6)\
\
\'93Figures 1 and 2 show that the trends in the publication of printed professional plays divide that market into six distinct periods:\'94 (7)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf3 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1576\'961597: an initial period of low production (48 first editions, 11 second-plus editions) \cb1 \
\cb4 1598\'961613: a boom followed by sustained high production (129 first editions, 79 second-plus editions) \cb1 \
\cb4 1614\'961628: a gradual contraction, with production levels generally still above those of 1576\'961597 (31 first editions, 65 second-plus editions) \cb1 \
\cb4 1629\'961640: a second boom (122 first editions, 84 second-plus editions) 1641\'961649: a sharp contraction, with only one play published from 1643 to 1645 \cb1 \
\cb4 (17 first editions, 10 second-plus editions)\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb4 1650\'961660: an expansion to levels slightly above those of 1614\'961628 (58 first editions, 27 second-plus editions) \cb1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93as figure 1 indicates, this first extended boom was initially driven by a rapid increase in second editions, not new plays\'94 (10)\
\'93Further, more and more stationers started entering the market for printed professional drama. From 1600 to 1602, 71 percent of first editions were produced by stationers who had never previously published a single play. Before then, play publication had been concentrated among relatively few stationers, with stationers new to professional drama bringing out only 20 percent of the first editions printed from 1595 to 1597, and only 36 percent of those printed from 1598 to 1599. The boom thus resulted in a widening, not merely a deepening, of stationer interest in playbooks.\'94 (10)\
\
\'93The ensuing period of market contraction for printed plays underscores the relative independence of print from the stage.\'94 (11)\
\'93this steep decline is accounted for almost entirely by a plunge in first editions from 8.1 to 2.1 per year. Indeed, according to the extant archive, from 1626 to 1628 not a single new professional play reached print, the first time such a suspension of play publication had occurred since 1588. The publication of second-plus editions, by contrast, hardly changed at all, decreasing only slightly from 4.9 to 4.3 editions per year.\'94 (12)\
\'93Some combination of changes in both supply and demand probably underlies the contraction, but what both hypotheses reveal is the centrality of reprints to the market for printed drama.\'94 (12)\
\
\'93When we include second-plus editions, Shakespeare\'92s plays occupy an even larger share of the overall market (twenty-three of eighty playbooks, or 29 percent). Shakespeare\'92s closest competitors during this seven-year period lag far behind: Robert Greene (nine playbooks) and Christopher Marlowe (five playbooks). We should point out, however, that Shakespeare was named on only nine of these title pages, which is hardly surprising given that authors in general appeared on only 36 percent of all play title pages during this period.\'94 (11)\
\
\'93second-plus editions were an extremely safe investment, for they almost always sold well enough to be printed in yet another edition; from 1576 to 1625, a whopping 72 percent of second-plus editions were reprinted within twenty years\'94 (12)\
\'93Reprints, which were surely less dependent on theatrical popularity than first editions, formed the backbone of the trade in printed plays.\'94 (13)\
\

\b \'93However much the Jonson and Shakespeare folios may have elevated the cultural value of drama, they seem to have had little or no effect on its economic value.
\b0  Instead, what created that economic value and finally established the market for printed drama was not these imposing folios but rather the more humble quarto reprints from the end of the 1590s.\'94 (13)\
\
\'93Once the market for printed professional plays had been created, just how significant was it? Blayney estimates that new plays accounted for 1.2 percent to 1.6 percent of all entries in the STC from 1583 to 1642.35 We would argue that these figures do not properly reflect the significance of playbooks in the book trade.\'94 (13)\
\'93by setting the number of plays against the total number of entries in the STC, Blayney\'92s figures compare apples and oranges. Although the STC presents the best picture we have of the mass of printed material circulating in early modern England, a fair number of entries, as Blayney himself notes, do not represent separate editions at all but are instead merely variant issues or states of a single edition.\'94 (13)\
\'93Blayney deals with play
\i texts
\i0 , not play
\i books
\i0 , and so includes twenty-nine plays published only in collection and not as separate books.\'94 (13)\
\
\'93While all playbooks were \'93speculative,\'94 meaning that publishers decided to invest in them based on their assessment of potential consumer demand, not all books carried this element of risk. When stationers produced state proclamations, visitation articles, or university act verses and theses\'97to take just a few frequent examples\'97they were not making decisions about the commercial viability of these items; rather, they were paid in advance and printed them on command.\'94 (14)\
\'93this question of speculation is crucial if we want to use market share to assess popularity\'94 (14)\
\'93we produced a sample of the STC from 1590 to 1640 by selecting six discrete years (1590, 1600, 1610, 1620, 1630, 1635) and examining every entry listed for those years, excluding variant issues and non-speculative books of the kinds discussed above\'94 (14)\
\'9379 percent are for speculative publications\'94 (14)\
\
\'93As the lower line on figure 3 shows, printed plays constituted a much larger market share than previously thought; indeed, in periods of expansion, that share was three times larger than Blayney\'92s figures show.\'94 (14)\
\'93in their peak years, professional plays made up 6.2 percent of the overall speculative market, or one in every sixteen speculative editions. While certainly not the dominant segment, playbooks were hardly marginal\'94 (16)\
\'93Figure 3 also confirms that changes in the market for plays were not simply responses to changes in the book trade as a whole; rather, the expansions and contractions in the total number of printed plays were also expansions and contractions in their market share\'94 (16)\
\
\'93these figures do not tell us the proportion of individual copies of printed plays among copies of all books, since we lack evidence for the press runs of most editions. Nor do they tell us the total capital invested in and revenue generated by playbooks compared to other classes of books.\'94 (16)\
\'93Without this evidence, we will never be able to ascertain precisely the \'93popularity\'94 of various kinds of books in early modern England, if by popularity we mean something like the modern best-seller lists or a publishing firm\'92s \'93bottom line.\'94\'94 (16)\
\
\'93It is nonetheless obvious that, in terms both of total copies sold and of total investment and profits, the dominant force in the early modern speculative book trade was a select group of titles protected by royal patents or by the English Stock monopoly. These include almanacs, Bibles, catechisms, and school books.\'94 (16)\
\'93While patented and monopolistic books comprise only about 11 percent of the total entries in our STC sample, that figure understates their importance, for not only were these books produced in greater press runs, but some, such as almanacs and primers, have higher loss rates as well.\'94 (17)\
\'93patented books were produced under fundamentally different economic conditions than other books\'94 (17)\
\'93Isolating the market for non-monopolistic books thus tells us more about stationers\'92 evaluations of uncertain demand than does an analysis that lumps together risky non-monopolistic books with constantly reprinted monopolistic titles.\'94 (17)\
\
\'93If we want to understand not which books were the most important financially to the book trade as a whole but rather how attractive playbooks were as investments, then we need to determine how often stationers chose to publish plays rather than other kinds of books available to them.\'94 (17)\
\
\'93Whether these figures seem high or low is to some degree a subjective measure. Both the \'93maximal\'94 and the \'93minimal\'94 market shares presented in figure 3 certainly suggest that playbooks were much more prevalent than recent scholarship has supposed, but whether they demonstrate the popularity of playbooks is a determination that can be made only after further studies produce the corresponding figures for other classes of books (poetry, travel, or medicine, for instance).\'94 (18)\
\'93we will compare playbooks to printed sermons, but without more such analyses, it is not possible to establish clearly the relative popularity of playbooks in terms of market share. What is certain, however, is that printed plays sold very well indeed compared to other kinds of books\'94 (18)\
\
\'93The problem, then, is not with these figures per se but with the fact that, because popularity is a relative concept, one cannot determine whether Blayney\'92s data indicate the relative unpopularity of playbooks (as he claims) or the relative popularity of playbooks, unless one knows how they compare to the reprint rates of other books.\'94 (18)\
\'93they were reprinted at more than twice the rate of speculative books in general (39.9 percent versus 18.1 percent)\'94 (18)\
\'93And these reprints were themselves extremely popular, with almost three-quarters of all second-plus editions reaching a further edition.\'94 (20)\
\'93Playbooks compare very well not only to a representative sample of all speculative books but also to the entire extant archive of one class of books, sermons in English, often considered one of the more successful segments of the early modern book trade\'94 (21)\
\
\'93judging by market share, sermons do indeed appear to have been more popular than playbooks\'94 (21)\
\'93During the period of their highest production (1606\'961640), printed sermons averaged just over forty-two editions per year, comprising 9.8 percent of the speculative market (or 11.4 percent of the non-monopolistic speculative market), more than twice the market share of professional plays during their two highest periods.\'94 (21)\
\'93But if we assess sermons by reprint rates, their relative popularity begins to dim: 19.3 percent of sermons first printed from 1576 to 1625 were reprinted inside twenty years, almost exactly the rate for speculative books in general. Even during the period of their peak reprint rates\'9729.9 percent from 1591 to 1606\'97sermons were reprinted much less frequently than were professional plays.\'94 (21)\
\'93Figure 5 shows the percentage of all professional plays and sermons first printed from 1576 to 1625 that reached two editions, three editions, and so on through ten or more editions by 1660. At each level, playbooks outperform sermons\'94 (22)\
\'93In fact, playbooks were more likely to reach a third edition by 1660 (26.1 percent) than the average English sermon was to reach a second (20 percent).\'94 (22)\
\'93Therefore, unless the combined press runs of a play\'92s first two editions were regularly smaller than the press run of the first edition of a sermon (and this seems highly improbable), then the typical playbook must have sold more total individual copies than the typical sermon.\'94 (22)\
\
\'93Playbooks outperformed sermons partly because plays were, in one important sense, less ephemeral than sermons. If a sermon was not reprinted within five years of its initial publication, it was highly unlikely ever to be reprinted.\'94 (22)\
\'93playbooks were just as likely to be first reprinted 
\i after
\i0  five years as 
\i within
\i0  five years\'94 (22)\
\'93Plays not only repaid their publishers\'92 investments more quickly than other books, but they also remained profitable far longer.\'94 (24)\
\
\'93The reprint success of playbooks, however, may give rise to the question of why more weren\'92t published if they were such a good investment for stationers.\'94 (24)\
\'93an average of just under six per year\'97has nevertheless seemed quite a low number to most recent scholars\'94 (24)\
\
[Is it because they are too short to be able to turn enough profit to be worthwhile? no]\
\'93The median (rather than the average) length of these 987 titles was only ten-and-ahalf sheets\'94 (25)\
\'93Because playbooks were fairly typical in length\'97and therefore in price and potential profits\'97and, at the same time, were far more likely to sell out than other books, many publishers must have found them attractive investments. In contrast to the low-cost, low-profit, higher-risk publications that recent scholarship has taken them to be, playbooks were in fact middling-cost, middling-profit, lower-risk publications\'97an appealing profile for speculators.\'94 (25)\
\
\'93If the seeming paucity of playbooks cannot be attributed to low demand\'97 either from consumers (judging by reprint rates) or from stationers (judging by their profit profile)\'97then perhaps we should investigate supply.\'94 (25)\
\'93early modern playing companies made their decisions based on their own economic interests, not on the interests of stationers\'94 (26)\
\'93Perhaps stationers would have published more plays had they been as plentiful as other texts.\'94 (26)\
\

\b \'93Contrary to what one might have assumed, a higher market share did not always correlate with a higher reprint rate.\'94 (26)
\b0 \
\'93Sermons, for example, claimed a much greater share of the speculative market, but playbooks were far more likely to reach a second edition; so which class of books was more \'93popular\'94?\'94 (27)\
\'93For reasons both cultural and economic, different kinds of books may have sold in different ways, may have had different structures of popularity.\'94 (27)\
\
\'93we turn briefly to the Caroline period, when the trade in playbooks, which had long functioned according to one structure of popularity, now fissured into two\'94 (27)\
\'93We are thus left with a seeming contradiction: if judged by reprint rates, plays seem to have become less popular in the Caroline period, yet according to two other indices of popularity\'97editions per year and market share\'97plays were at least as popular as ever.\'94 (27)\
\'93Reprint rates seem to have been depressed because of an unprecedented division between the structures of popularity for first and second-plus editions.\'94 (27)\
\'93in the Caroline period new plays were almost never reprinted, while second-plus editions continued to be reprinted at roughly the same rate\'94 (28)\
\'93The market for first editions was dominated by one group of publishers, and that for second-plus editions by a different group of publishers, with very little overlap\'94 (28)\
\'93The market for first editions seems to have been driven by customers\'92 desire for novelty, for the newest playbook in the stationer\'92s shop from the latest play performed in the theater\'94 (28)\
\'93The market for second-plus editions, on the other hand, depended on customers\'92 attachment to particular \'93classics,\'94\'94 (28)\
\
Methods\
\'93STC Sample: We cannot assume that the \'93speculative rate\'94 for our six-year STC sample (79 percent) automatically matches that for the entire fifty-one-year period of 1590 through 1640, so we must therefore acknowledge the potential margin of error, which in this case is \'b11.4 percent.\'94 (30)\
\'93We have chosen for our STC sample six years\'971590, 1600, 1610, 1620, 1630, and 1635\'97that, due to STC cataloguing practices, contain a higher than average number of entries with inferred dates\'94 \'85 \'93For these purposes, statistical tests demonstrate that entries with inferred dates are not inconsistent with all other entries in these years.\'94 (30)\
\
\'93Reprint Parameters:\'94 \'93First, Blayney uses a twenty-five-year window for reprints, while we use a more conservative twenty-year window\'94 \'93Second, he designates the year of publication as Year 1, while we count it as Year 0\'94 \'93he has also included several university plays that we have not\'94 \'93Blayney tracks plays first printed in collections separately from the collection as a whole\'94 (31)\
\'93whereas we are interested in reprints of play
\i books
\i0 , not play
\i texts
\i0 , and so consider F2 as a single book and a single reprint of F1\'94\
\'93Applying our parameters to the periods analyzed by Blayney but extending our reprint window to twenty-five years to match his yields reprint rates of 42.7 percent (thirty-eight of eighty-nine) for 1583\'961602, 43.1 percent (forty-seven of 109) for 1603\'9622, and 15.6 percent (twenty-one of 135) for 1623\'9642. Since Blayney\'92s figures turn out to be higher than ours, our argument about the popularity of playbooks remains unaffected.\'94\
\
\'93Sermon Archive: Our sermon archive includes all known editions of sermons in English first printed from 1576 to 1640. We compiled this archive by searching in the STC and ESTC, and by consulting the following works\'94\
\
}