{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 The English Short Title Catalogue\cf0  began as the Eighteenth Century Short Title Catalogue in the 1970s, operating in a similar line as the original Pollard and Redgrave Short-Title Catalogue for 1476\'961640 and Donald Wing\'92s catalogue for 1641\'961700\cf2 . \cf0 These catalogues established the ambitious simplicity of the ESTC: to accurately describe every edition of every printed work in English or from the United Kingdom.\cf2  \cf0 The Eighteenth Century Short Title Catalogue began properly in 1976, at a conference jointly sponsored by the British Library and the American Society for Eighteenth Century Studies (Crump 106). Here, \'93bibliographers and librarians attempted both to arrive at a consensus of the size of the task and the methodology that would have to be adopted to achieve a union catalogue. However, until the works were catalogued, it would not be possible to answer basic questions (such as the potential number of extant items) which would predetermine working methods. The very fact that they found it difficult to agree for want of sound and accepted figures indicated the need for ESTC.\'94 (Crump 105). A pilot project began at the British Library in 1977, under the direction of Robin Alston (Crump 105).\cf2  \cf0 Unlike earlier Short-Title Catalogues, which appeared as lengthly print publication\cf3 s\cf0 , the Eighteenth-Century Short Title Catalogue was conceived as digital from the beginning \'97 a decision which, as Karian notes, \'93exhibited considerable foresight\'94 (283) in the 1970s. As a result, \'93ESTC records existed in digital form long before many humanists saw computer technology as central to their work\'94 (Karian 283).  Robin Alston and Mervyn Jannetta developed their own cataloguing rules, distinct from the Library of Congress MARC and UK MARC standards (Korshin 211). Once these standards were established, the British Library began to re-catalogue its own holdings, and in 1979 libraries in the United States, Germany, and Australia undertook to supplement them. In these international collaborations, \'93Where ESTC records already existed, these were adopted as the [new] record and only those works not held in the ESTC base file were catalogued again\'94 (Crump 105).}