{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Finally, chapter 5 of this dissertation examines the works of Hannah More across several digital corpora. Hannah More is selected as a particularly difficult writer to grapple with, both bibliographically and in terms of critical reception. \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hannah More\'92s first book published was the pastoral drama 
\i A Search after Happiness
\i0 , published in 1773. \cf2 Her early writing is focused on the theatre. \cf0 In 1774 she publishe\cf3 d\cf0  her play 
\i The Inflexible Captive, 
\i0 which \cf3 wa\cf0 s produced in 1775 at the Theatre Royal in Bath. In 1776, she publishe\cf3 d\cf0  
\i Sir Eldred of the Bower and the Bleeding Rock
\i0 . In 1777, she publishe\cf3 d\cf0  her first conduct-book, 
\i Essays on Various Subjects
\i0 , dedicated to the bluestocking Elizabeth Montagu. Her play 
\i Percy, A Tragedy
\i0  \cf3 wa\cf0 s also produced at Covent Garden in 1777, running through 1778. In 1779, her third play, 
\i The Fatal Falsehood
\i0 , \cf3 wa\cf0 s performed but \cf3 wa\cf0 s considered a failure, after which More stop\cf3 ped\cf0  writing for the stage.\cf2  From this point, she primarily wrote various forms of didactic and religious prose, with the occasional didactic and religious poem. \cf0 In 1782, she publishe\cf3 d\cf0  
\i Sacred Dramas
\i0 \cf2  \cf0 and 
\i Sensibility: A Poem
\i0 \cf2 , her first foray into poetry\cf0 . In 1783, she \cf3 wrote\cf0  
\i The Bas Bleu
\i0 , which circulate\cf3 d\cf0  in manuscript but \cf3 did\cf0  not see print until 1786. In 1786 she publishe\cf3 d\cf0  
\i Florio
\i0 , a poem in praise o\cf2 f\cf0  rural life, and 
\i The Bas Bleu
\i0 . In 1788 she published 
\i Thoughts on the Importance of the Manners of the Great to General Society
\i0 , as well as 
\i Slavery: A Poem
\i0 .\cf2  \cf0 More\'92s first publication in this dissertation\'92s decade of interest is her 1789 poem, 
\i Bishop Bonner\'92s Ghost
\i0 . In 1790, she published 
\i An Estimate of the Religion of the Fashionable Works
\i0 . In 1793, she published \'93Village Politics,\'94 a counter-revolutionary tract for the poor\cf2  which came to embody the reaction against Thomas Paine\cf0 . In 1793, \cf3 she \cf0 published 
\i Remarks on the Speech of M. Dupont
\i0  in aid of French emigrant clergy. In 1795 she began the massive undertaking of editing, and largely writing, 
\i The Cheap Repository Tracts
\i0 \cf2 , the writing for which she is now most known\cf0 . These tracts were distributed as inexpensive chapbooks from 1795 to 1797.\cf2  \cf0 In 1798, she reprinted many of these tracts in volume form. In 1799 she published, under her own name, 
\i Strictures on the Modern System of Female Education,
\i0  and another volume of Cheap Repository tracts.\cf2  \cf0 Unlike Charlotte Smith and Mary Robinson, More had a long career after this dissertation\'92s decade of interest\cf2 , nearly all in the form of didactic prose\cf0 . A third volume of Cheap Repository tracts \cf3 wa\cf0 s published in 1800. In 1803, she\cf2  published some patriotic ballads\cf0 . 1804 \cf3 saw\cf0  \'93The White Slave Trade,\cf2 \'94\cf0  \cf2 \'93\cf0 an attack on the frivolity of the fashionable world\'94 (Stott). In 1805, she published, anonymously, 
\i Hints toward forming the Character of a Young Princess
\i0 . 1806 \cf3 saw\cf0  another edition of tracts in volume form. In 1808 she publishe\cf3 d\cf0  her only novel, 
\i Coelebs in Search of a Wife
\i0 . In 1811 she publishe\cf3 d\cf0  
\i Practical Piety
\i0 . In 1812 she publishe\cf3 d\cf0  
\i Christian Morals
\i0 . In 1815 she published 
\i Essay on the Character and Writings of St. Paul
\i0 . In 1817, in response to civil unrest, she began republishing the 
\i Cheap Repository Tracts 
\i0 as 
\i Cheap Repository Tracts Suited to the Present Times
\i0 . She reprinted and distributed these from 1817 to 1819, and wrote some new ones. In 1819, she published 
\i Moral Sketches
\i0  and an abolitionist poem. In 1821, she publishe\cf3 d\cf0  
\i Bible Rhymes
\i0 . In 1825, she publishe\cf3 d\cf0  
\i The Spirit of Prayer
\i0 , her last new publication, written at age 80 after more than 50 years of writing. A fifth volume of Cheap Repository tracts appear\cf3 ed\cf0  in 1827.\cf3  More died in 1833\cf2 , age 88\cf3 .}