{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 How do collections of texts relate to collectives of people? Many generations of intense scholarly effort has been driven by the conviction that they 
\i are
\i0  related, and that there is a political and social importance, often an urgent importance, to academic textual selection and textual reproduction. It is an insoluble problem in part because it addresses a moving target: the collections of texts which now implicitly shape [??], and the institutions which reproduce them, change to [meet new social needs]. \
\
Guillory argues that despite the rhetoric of pluralism, representation in a literary canon is not identical to, or even directly translatable to, political representation. Indeed, as the role of literature in directly dictating the cultural zeitgeist wanes, questions of canonical representation seem to fall by the wayside as no longer urgent.\
\
Moretti raised a lot of hopes that computational distant reading could \'93solve\'94 the problem of literary canons, though Ted Underwood\'92s Distant Horizons argues that this hope as now been abandoned, that no results actually emerged from the inquiry. Nonetheless I do not consider this a pass\'e9 area of inquiry; I see the failure at the site of methods, not in the core question. \
\
My dissertation examines the extent to which contemporary digital corpora of literature do and do not function according to the logic of literary \'93canons\'94. Like literary canons, these corpora \'97 especially smaller ones, like the Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation Partnership \'97 are vulnerable to a critique of their selection methods on the grounds of representation. However, unlike the various changing literary canons of the past, digital corpora tend to conceal which particular titles have been selected as representative. \
\
The late eighteenth century saw a rapid increase in the volume of texts being published, and many expressed alarm and uncertainty about changes in 
\i who
\i0  was now reading, and what and how they read. }