{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 The meaning of \'93popular\'94 shifts depending on what is conceived of as its \'93opposite.\'94 Is it an aesthetic category, popular vs highbrow, Gothic novel vs poetry? Is is a sociological/economic term, popular vs elite, ballads and chapbooks vs books? Is it tied to reception, popular vs unpopular, Udolpho vs The Two Emilys? Or tied to legacy, popular vs forgotten, Lyrical Ballads vs The Lemon? I am interested in all of these varying definitions of popularity because they are all tied to what 
\i actually
\i0  interests me, an attempt to define and characterize \'93normal.\'94\
Literary study is typically interested in outliers, because they are, well, 
\i interesting
\i0 . I\'92m interested in the \'93normal\'94 because I think it is a necessary context for any claims or analysis about that which is exceptional. For example, it\'92s not appropriate to read too much into the fact that Radcliffe published Athlin & Dunbayne unsigned, since this was \'93normal\'94 \'97 a default position, rather than an informative expression of intentionality. So, one kind of \'93normal\'94 that interests me is this idea of the default: what might we expect? The default normal can be defined at multiple levels of granularity. We are handed a two-volume work, what might we expect from it at default? We are looking at a poem written by a man in 1792, what might we expect from it at default? Making these naive default guesses will be tied to another meaning of \'93normal,\'94 that of \'93most prevalent.\'94 From this perspective \'93normal\'94 serves more as a synonym of \'93common.\'94 What do we find the most of? Again, this can be defined at multiple levels of granularity. (Is most-ness a trait of normality, or of exceptionality\'85.?) Can we better characterize the background against which outlier works were written and read?\
In both cases, it is difficult to describe \'93normal for an eighteenth century audience\'94 through the mediating lenses of our databases. One key question, in fact, is \'93is there anything that seems normal in these databases which would not seem normal to the eighteenth century public?\'94 I anticipate denaturalizing some aspects of these databases, e.g., the way that the flatten distinctions between different buying publics (social classes, time periods, tastes).\
I\'92m also interested in \'93disreputable\'94 literatures, which have often been some versions of popular or some versions of normal \'97 this is an essentially ethical attachment, or perhaps an inherent contrariness; any time a work is dismissed for any reason, I wish to question the importance of the evaluation metrics which rejected it, and seek whatever may be of value in the rejected work. This is one way a reparative impulse underlies the project: so what is these things were common, or cheap, or bad \'97 that doesn\'92t mean they 
\i have
\i0  to be worthless. The arbitrariness of the literary canon is that essentially any artistic product can be imbued with value by its audience. (Guillory has a lot on this.) I want to explore how we can value that which has not been valued.}