Terry,

Thank you for meeting with me last week -- I have a note to follow up with you to request the papers you mentioned on "intergenre and mixing genre (dramatic novel)" which I think refers to a play which described itself as a novel, and perhaps to an article on intergenre connections.

I've been starting and abandoning thesis proposal drafts as I work through my thoughts, which has been fruitful. My goal is to have a fully polished proposal by the 20th, thus giving me 10 days to circulate that draft and revise according to feedback. (A little tight, but I can revise fast if I focus!) I wanted to solicit your opinion on a broad directional question I'm facing. I'm currently mulling over two lines of thought:

1. Maintaining a very tight chronological focus of, say, 1790-1810, I would examine a selection of writers who used a multiplicity of generic forms. (Right now, I am interested in Mary Wollstonecraft, Elizabeth Inchbald, and Charlotte Smith.) I would contextualize those writers, as best as possible, in relationship to the total cultural output of the sliver of time I've selected; even twenty years might be too broad. My goal would be to discover the continuities within the mediascape, and to produce a compellingly rich interpretation of the effects of each writer's generic choices. Given my past research suggesting that Ann Radcliffe is in fact markedly unlike the majority of texts assumed to duplicate her 'school', I would likely also examine the extent to which the writers I select can really be generalized as representative of broader trends. Computationally, I imagine myself using databases and spreadsheets to organize large amounts of disparate information. My reading distance would be quite close, with the 'novelty' coming from an attempt to chronologically unify a wide range of materials.

2. Throwing a wide chronological net, say, 1750-1830, I would seek insight not into individual authors' writing practice but into general usage. 'Case study' literary works would emerge from distant computational assessment. This scope is more in line with the works I most enjoy reading (E.J. Clery's Rise of Supernatural Fiction, for example, or Leah Price's Anthology and the Rise of the Novel) but whereas I feel like I can try to make sense of "everything, 1790-1810," the task of "everything, 1750-1830" seems obviously much too big. Two options interest me: looking at the titles of works (e.g., the play that calls itself a novel, or the Memoir vs Life vs History we discussed) and accumulating a lot of texts to see what, if anything, these titles are promising their readers. Or, sidelining genre as an interest to pursue intertextuality, finding places where writers quote or reference Shakespeare, and figuring out how they're using him and why. Computationally, I imagine myself writing programs to process particular information from plain-text copies of the various works. Title genres would give me a good place to start with topic modelling, and for the uses of Shakespeare I could easily write a program to spot Shakespeare quotes. My reading distance would be much farther, with closer readings coming in only after my computational methods have identified a text as of potential interest.

The "uses of Shakespeare" question feels exciting partly because it is the one for which I can most clearly envision the next steps, but that may also be because it's the newest idea. (My guess is that the "uses of Shakespeare" would offer insight on the things that already interest me regarding the basis and use of the literary canon, the theatricality of the Gothic, the interconnectedness of artistic forms, etc, while offering a practical means of maintaining focus.) But I'd be keen to hear what sounds potentially fruitful to you.

I'm hoping that, by narrowing down which of these specific research questions I will focus on, I will also answer for myself whether my special fields reading list ought to be a short chronological period of a broad thematic one.

Many thanks,
Lawrence

----

Dear Lawrence,
Apologies for the delayed reply.  Arin's nanny hurt her back this week and cancelled on us, so it's been full-on baby, 24/7.  

Thank you for the reminder re: resources.  If you're interested in books that address intersections between the C18-C19 novel and the drama, check out the following for a start:
Alan Ackerman (a UofT prof.), The Portable Theater: American Literature and the Nineteenth-Century Stage
Emily Anderson, Eighteenth-Century Authorship and the Play of Fiction
Francesca Saggini’s Backstage in the Novel
Lisa A Freeman, Character's Theater
Emily Allen, Theatre Figures: The Production of the Nineteenth-Century British Novel
Michael Gamer, Romanticism and the Gothic: Genre, Reception, and Canon Formation
Ros Ballaster is also working on this topic, so you might see if she has any recent publications that could be of use. 

With regard to your proposed dissertation ideas, I'm sure that your thinking on this has evolved since you wrote your email, but your first topic seems (at this point) the most promising, and I may be saying that because it is the more traditional topic.  The other two topics--assessing titles of works or seeing where Shakespeare pops up in the literature of the period--feel more like really interesting article ideas to me.  The concern I have with the Shakespeare is that people often did not quote the Bard exactly but paraphrased him or they parodied his language.  I imagine that it would be difficult for a program to detect such instances?  With regard to assessing titles of works, the difficulty there is that it doesn't seem, right now, as if it would provide enough material for a dissertation.

So, what if you were to go with option no. 1, but jazz it up a bit?  FIRST, you say that you're interested in writers who engaged with a multiplicity of forms, and the writers you've mentioned are fabulous for this, but what about the Romantic writers, too?  They wrote across genres, and doing a cross-media analysis of them might be fascinating!  Shelley wrote plays, poetry, and essays.  Wordsworth and Coleridge did, too.  Coleridge was even more engaged with multi-media.  Godwin and Lamb are known for their essays, but they also engaged with drama.  The list goes on. In other words, I think it would be good to cast your net a little wider for now and see where it takes you.  Also, working in one or two of these more major authors would bode well for you on the job market.  Hiring committees want people who are fresh and interesting but who can also teach the canon.  SECOND, I wonder if you could bring your interest in titles to bear on this research.  What does it mean, for instance, for Coleridge and Wordsworth to write "lyrical ballads" in a day when there is so much cross-genre experimentation going on?  Is it really that "novel" that Elizabeth Inchbald is writing novels that read, in part, like dramas?  What would putting her novels into the broader context of the many C18 novels with tiles that that say "a dramatic novel" etc. reveal about her writing practices?  (Just FYI, I'm working on this question myself right now, but whatever I turn out will necessarily look very different from what you do, given your DH focus.)  In other words, what about a dissertation that helps us understand the C18 "mediascape" by using DH tools to investigate titles, generic trends, etc. and then examine a range of authors and their work as case studies?  

On another note, have you heard of NINES?  http://www.nines.org/about/  It's founded by a Romanticist, and given that your work is part DH and extends into the early nineteenth century, you definitely be clued into this.

--Hope this helps.  Good luck with the writing, and let me know if you have any follow-up questions.
Best Wishes,
Terry