{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 \'93\cf4 Not surprisingly then, judgments of More\'92s work cover an equally broad span of critical interpretation. Received with near-universal praise and adulation during her lifetime and immediately following, More quickly became, like many elements of the eighteenth century, outdated by the revolutionized England of the nineteenth century. Eventually, More slipped into obscurity, where she remained for much of the twentieth century. However, with the latter part of that century\'92s proliferation of new modes of interpretation and with it the re-discovery of lesser-known, under-appreciated authors and works, renewed attention has been given to More, repeating in simultaneous fashion the varied views that occurred over the course of the previous two centuries.\cf2 \'94 (Prior)\
\
\'93\cf4 To some recent critics, More is a reactionary, patriarchal foil to her radical feminist counterpart, Mary Wollstonecraft, an advocate for a conservative, counter-revolutionary sort of progress for women. Other critics, in recognition of her call for reform across all social strata, place More somewhere in between these extreme views. This variety of critical views points to the complexity of both More and the age of paradigmatic change in which More occupied an unusual position\cf2 : born in the middle-class, she was embraced by the London elite and ministered to the poor; a devout Anglican she offered shelter to French Catholic priests exiled during the French Revolution; an educated and literary woman in a highly-gendered society, she overcame traditional gender boundaries while rejecting the revolutionary call for the rights of women; she shared, nevertheless, with Wollstonecraft the freelover a call to the reformation of women\'92s education along with the reformation of the manners and morality; a product of the Age of Reason, she appealed to sensibility in her attempts to address slavery, poverty, and irreligion.\'94 (Prior)\
\
\'93More\'92s writing now aimed more directly at a conservative agenda of reform that excluded no social class. While all of these works are conservative in assuming the preservation of class boundaries, they are progressive in their belief that individual reform is possible within one\'92s class, whether high, middle, or low. Such a position is now variously interpreted along a spectrum of critical views. Some critics accuse More\'92s efforts of serving merely to reinforce class boundaries by alleviating the worst distresses of poverty without eradicating it; others see her attempts as ultimately more effective because modest reform rather than radical revolution was more widely acceptable and achievable.\'94 (Prior)\
\
\'93\cf4 The success of the Cheap Repository Tracts led More to expand these didactic short sketches and tales into a full-length novel. This was a rather bold undertaking since novels at this time were still viewed, particularly among conservatives like More, as a tawdry form of entertainment with base appeal. More had even offered her own disdain for novel-writers in her\'a0
\i Strictures on the Modern System of Female Education
\i0 . Nevertheless, encouraged by her fellow Claphamites, she published in late 1808 what would be her only novel,\'a0
\i C\'9clebs in Search of a Wife: Comprehending Observations on Domestic Habits and Manners, Religion and Morals
\i0 . Part essay, part conduct book, and part novel, the book tells a fairly straightforward if longwinded account of \'96 as the title makes clear \'96 a young bachelor\'92s search for a wife. Interspersed among the various characters and incidents are observations and lessons on a range of topics such as education, child rearing, religion, and charity. By numerous accounts, the novel was one of the most widely-read and bestselling books of its kind. Indeed, it can be argued that More\'92s single attempt at novel-writing played a key role in helping the novel form to achieve the respectable status necessary for it to reach the artistic and literary height of the Victorian age. The fact that its unabashed didacticism renders it nearly unreadable today offers great insight into the vast literary and cultural changes that have taken place between More\'92s day and our own.\cf2 \'94 (Prior)}