{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 An edition being \'93included\'94 in ECCO looks different from its inclusion in the ESTC \'97 whereas the ESTC lists just one record for each multivolume work, ECCO lists each volume separately, with links to the other volumes available in the \'93full citation\'94 for the volume.\cf3 \
\
\'93Such consideration for users is sadly rather less visible with EEBO\'92s eighteenth-century equivalent ECCO. Unlike EEBO, ECCO presents users with a single, cropped page. In so doing, it has taken the opportunity to remove every blank page that ever appeared in an eighteenth-century book (pace its claim to provide \'91digital images of every page of 150,000 books published during the 18th Century\'92).\'94 (Gadd 688)\
\
\'93Unlike EEBO, ECCO includes an underlying text-transcription of its entire collection, which users can search but cannot access in any other way. According to ECCO\'92s online guide, the full-text transcriptions are generated using computerised \'91optical character recognition\'92 of the digitised images of [start page 689] each page, with \'91proprietary software created by the vendor to improve OCR accuracy, including the \'91correction\'92 of old English f/s ligatures and other spelling and character variants\'92; in addition, there are elaborate quality control systems:\
For every digitized page of data, eight specific items are sampled for accuracy and correctness. Each page is visually scanned for glaring errors or omissions. Every 20th page is read in its entirety. (\'91About Eighteenth Century Collections Online\'92)\
With this in mind, it comes as somewhat of a surprise to discover that, according to ECCO, the word \'91fuck\'92 or versions thereof appear over 28,000 times in print in the eighteenth century. Finally, unlike EEBO, feedback from users does not seem to be much valued: the technical support e-mail address provided on its help pages no longer seems to be valid.\'94 (Gadd 688-9)\
\
\'93In various different ways, ECCO is less open with its users than is usual in academia. It likes to tidy away noisy information. The microfilms on which it is based reproduce images of the openings of books, but ECCO chops each opening into two single-page images and dispenses with all the detail (the rulers placed against type, the blank pages, and the indicators of physical structure) that is so precious to bibliographers. Since 2009, ECCO documents have been supported by MARC descriptions, drawn (presumably) from the ESTC and supplemented by Gale\'92s own \'91Subject\'92 entries. Users can search by subject, and yet the MARC files are not directly accessible for checking by readers using ordinary institutional subscriptions. Similarly, there is still no accurate way to identify by class- or shelf-mark the actual copy of a book that ECCO reproduces. An indication of the source collection is always given, but the larger libraries that the original microfilm photographers tended to favor often keep multiple copies of editions, and it is seldom possible to discover which copy has been used without a personal visit to the archive. This omission has several consequences: readers are further distanced from experience of the original material object; local features (such as MS annotations on the original) are inadequately documented; and the widespread phenomenon of stop-press variants within editions of hand-press era books is forgotten. Most frustratingly of all, ECCO does not allow users access to the scanned optical character recognition (OCR) documents that its full-text searches run on.\
This secretiveness inevitably arouses suspicions about the accuracy of the scans.\'94 (Bullard 755)\
\
A glowing 2004 review of ECCO in the \'93Database & Disc Reviews\'94 section of Library Journal says \'93The Advanced Search is so powerful it gave me sensory overload.\'94 (LaGuardia 124)}