{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl520\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The John Johnson Collection illuminates a path to preservation which is necessary for a work like 
\i Consolation for the scorbutic
\i0  to survive two hundred years and remain findable by scholars. John Johnson, as an individual, somewhat eccentrically collected \'93everything which would ordinarily go into the waste paper basket after use, everything printed which is not actually a book\'94 (Johnson, qtd in \'93Introduction,\'94\'a0 p 9). Here, too, economic conditions are core constituting factors: Johnson concludes that \'93it is indisputable that this collection could not have been formed economically, or at all, except by attachment to this Printing Business\'94 (qtd in \'93Introduction, p 12), and he also discusses the importance of not announcing his intentions as a collector, so as to avoid driving up prices through increased demand.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Johnson danced a balancing act in taking a non-library approach while also relying on the university/library value system to preserve what he was building: \'93Both the Press and the University were mentioned in the solicitation or acknowledgement of any gift, and it was laid down that there was to be no private property in these collections of any kind whatever. Nor were there to be any acts of dealing or sale.\'94 (Johnson qtd \'93Introduction\'94 p 11) \'93Thus the property of the University (through its Printing House) in the collections is absolute and has been secured at a very small net cost.\'94 (Johnson qtd \'93Introduction\'94 p 12)
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Johnson actually embraces the happenstance of uneven survivorship rates as a core pre-filtering practice to make historic archives sustainable: \'93what I may call contemporary collecting is out of the question. War\'96 time A.R.P. ephemera alone would fill room\'96space many times the whole existing space of the Sanctuary.... Thus we have made the outbreak of war the main terminus ante quem. There will still be supplementary acquisitions filling gaps in the past, and I hope that the future may be tempted to add out of the unconscious selection of the present, just as we in the present have added out of the unconscious selection of the past. This unconscious selection must always be the foundation of any collection which is both manageable and typical.\'94 (Johnson qtd \'93Introduction\'94 12)}