{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
My current thinking on my dissertation consists of a series of questions which are, ultimately, about the construction of written canons. As I pose these questions, I am concerned with some interrelated dichotomies which fall out of this larger question: popularity versus seriousness, timeliness versus timelessness and marginalization versus canonization. I want to ask how works that are now considered serious and timeless have achieved their prominent positions, and examine \'93unserious\'94 or ephemeral works that reward further consideration. I thus wade directly into some of the most complex and contentious concerns of literary studies; my goal is to contribute something novel in my computational approaches, while taking part in the constant evolution of the current \'93canon.\'94
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 My introduction establishes the vocabularies that I will use. Chapter one engages with the problem of archival gaps, to ask how existing digital corpora of eighteenth century literature represent the 1790s, establishing a foundation of knowledge for the following chapters. Chapter two introduces the driving stakes of the dissertation: it asks what long-term impact literary celebrity has on an author\'92s legacy, particularly for male versus female authors. In keeping with my contention that literary works must be considered as still \'93active\'94 even after their original publication, my third chapter turns it attention to works originally written before the 1790s which nonetheless can be considered as important \'931790s literature\'94 due to prominent re-printing. My fourth chapter pursues a different tack to focus on another set of widely-read works that are often excluded from \'931790s literature\'94: chapbooks. My fifth chapter brings together these lines of thought, to ask what relationship \'93serious literature\'94 had to the \'93non-literary\'94, and especially to \'93sub-literary\'94 fiction, in the 1790s.}