{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The 1790s in Digital Archives: A Meta-Analysis of Holdings
\b0 \cf2 \cb3 \
A major concern regarding digital humanities research is the ability of findings to be \'93representative.\'94 There is broad understanding that digital archives contain gaps, but little specific knowledge of the nature of those gaps. My project is analogous to a scientific meta-analysis, comparing several major digital collections. I consider all works published in Britain between 1789 and 1799 across six digital archives. The collections examined are heterogeneous, ranging from 51,965 bibliographic entries in the English Short Title Catalogue to 466 XML files created by the Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation Partnership. \cf2 \cb1 I use a range of approaches, including topic modelling, to identify what kinds of literature each corpus emphasizes, and what omissions and errors scholars must be aware of. \cf2 \cb3 By comparing the holdings and metadata of these collections, this paper lays groundwork for future scholars to work with digital corpora in a nuanced, selective way.\cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 Lawrence Evalyn, Ph.D. Candidate at the University of Toronto. (lawrence.evalyn@mail.utoronto.ca)}