{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Marjorie Levinson\'92s 
\i Wordsworth\'92s Great Period Poems 
\i0 (1986). Writing broadly in the tradition of Marxist criticism Levinson theorised interestingly about the relationship between history and literature in her 
\i Rethinking Historicism 
\i0 (1989), but it was her new readings of ostensibly unpolitical poems such as the \'91Intimations of Immortality\'92 ode and \'91Tintern Abbey\'92 in the earlier book which have had the most lasting effect. For her, political events were vital in shaping Wordsworth\'92s verse, even when they were apparently absent. His choice of images could reveal the link Levinson argued. An apparently innocuous reference to a solitary \'91tree\'92, for example, might allude to the French tree of liberty, or his \'91single field\'92 to the Champ de Mars. But it was the omissions that were more important, representing a deliberate suppression of political optimism and its replacement with a new system of belief, the \'91myth of the soul\'92 at the core of the Intimations ode. For the disenchanted Wordsworth, latching on to new ideals in the poem,\'91there are victories\'92, wrote Levinson, 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 far greater than those once anticipated from the French Revolution. Rather than grieve over those mundane losses, the reader is exhorted to set his sights on those other and spiritual palms . . . the \'91soothing thoughts that spring / Out of human suffering.\'92 (
\i Wordsworth\'92s Great Period Poems 
\i0 93\'964, 98\'969) 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Such an approach has perhaps proved so influential because it helps to explain, and perhaps even authorise, Wordsworth\'92s rather forlorn retreat from his youthful idealism. }