{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green0\blue7;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Is there a way in which this can be said to be, overall, about how texts do or don't 'enter' a 'canon' of writings - by which you mean, as per e.g. Guillory or Bourdieu, and the idea of cultural capital, a set of texts studied, produced, valued (to varying degrees over time) within certain cultural fields, most especially the field of academic research (but also education, modern publishing, creative industries etc). And then your contribution to the many discussions that go on about (and indeed change) canon, is to bring show we can use digital tools to ask and answer that question? I think maybe it is, and if that is the case, then you need to say just that, and that the other issues - timelessness, popularity, marginalization, immediacy, fall out of that larger question\'85 If you frame it like this, and I think I am suggesting you should, it will force you to have a preliminary chapter or part of the introduction where you review terms/concepts like \'91popularity\'92 or indeed, canon, or \'91marginalization\'92 - all of which have their own literatures, outside of DH, but also sometimes in or adjacent it (see e.g. the arguments of Lesser, Farmer, Blayney about Shx\'92s popularity as measured by edition output and print runs - which used some very basic data tools). You need this because at the moment, you just jump into the studies without the framing questions well established. Such a chapter/intro would also enable you to deal directly with the way that other researchers in your fields (18thC and DH) have already tried to address these questions using different approaches, among them editing (new canons) or distant reading. 
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \strokec2 This initial chapter/introduction \'a0I am imagining would also deal with \'93why 1790s literature\'94 and who else treats the 1790s as a period worthy of cordoning off like this (thus, who your scholarly interlocutors are). 
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \strokec2 Finally, you\'92ve not tried to articulate the queer theory piece here. I think you should, perhaps by thinking with something like this\'85 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://dh2017.adho.org/abstracts/406/406.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \ul https://dh2017.adho.org/abstracts/406/406.pdf}}. What would be the special character of a non-extractive/anti-oppressive/
\i less
\i0  neo-lib or conservative or colonial \'a0DH approach to the \'91canon of 1790s\'92 literature. }