{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Bailey provides an unusually detailed research methodology, including a sampling rationale and justification: \
\'93A variety of diverse sources spanning the period are consulted in order to compile a wide\uc0\u8208 ranging picture of representations of fatherhood. This survey is not intended to be fully systematic. The sources are deliberately selected for their diversity of genre and date in order to broaden out from previous denominational or regional foci. They include advice literature, to provide a comparison with the larger body of work on prescription aimed at women, and periodicals, particularly the Lady's Magazine, sampled between 1770 and 1810. The latter source complements William Stafford's recent study of representations of gentlemen in the Gentlemen's Magazine. Memoirs of men and women born and reaching adulthood in the first fifty years of the period are also examined. \'85 Additional sources such as fiction and art are considered as a context. The selected sources inevitably bias the study towards the upper middle classes as there is no space to assess popular culture. It may be that some fundamental aspects of fatherhood were shared by the literate and semi\u8208 literate and it is hoped that future research will trace the evolution of these ideals both earlier in the century and from the perspective of different social ranks.\'94\
\'93Descriptions of fathers were analysed using qualitative research software (NVivo). The data were coded where references to fathers occurred at \'91nodes\'92, collections of references from multiple sources grouped by concept. These nodes were named according to the type of fathering referred to in the sources.\'94\
\
Key conclusions:\
\'93In short, being a father sensitized men.\'94\
\'93It might be expected that it was the tyrannical father who served as the unacceptable opposite to the affectionate papa. Certainly, male tyranny in the family was condemned\'85Yet, most often, the tender father's antithesis was the indifferent father\'85 Such fathers were condemned because their children did not fill their minds, which were sidetracked by less important things.\'94\
\'93The intimate connection between emotional and material care within provision is perhaps best seen in the defining feature of a \'91bad father\'92 which was his 
\i refusal
\i0 , as opposed to his inability, to support his children.\'94\
A shift away from physical discipline\'97 \'93authority was still asserted by tender fathers though it was conveyed in sentimental form\'94\
\'93The emergence of the tender, protective, virtuous father was shaped by the challenges which were perceived to threaten eighteenth\uc0\u8208 century society. British society experienced commercialization, in both domestic and transatlantic forms, escalating consumption and manufacture, urbanization, global wars, and by the final quarter of the eighteenth century the potential for political revolution.\'94 \'93The dissipated man did not just destroy his own family; he weakened social bonds by undermining the family, and squandered the wealth of the nation.\'94\
\
Examples from Vicar:\
\'93They revelled in their children's' existence. In the Vicar of Wakefield, first published in 1766, Reverend Primrose confessed, \'91it would be fruitless to deny my exultation when I saw my little ones about me\'92.47 Fathers personally experienced their children's delights and sorrows.\'94\
\'93The best father was kind and forgiving when a child was disobedient. The Vicar of Wakefield refused to turn away his disobedient daughter and rejected his wife's threat that she would never let Olivia darken their doors again. He declaimed: \'91the wretched creature shall be welcome to this heart and this house, though stained with ten thousand vices.\'9286 This emphasis on benign mastery was compatible with the privileging of the tender aspects of fatherhood and matches advice that fathers be companions of children rather than overt disciplinarians.\'94}