{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red26\green23\blue24;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red14\green110\blue109;\red0\green0\blue255;\red17\green127\blue182;\red11\green91\blue196;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c13725\c12157\c12549;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c0\c50196\c50196;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c1569\c57255\c76471;\cssrgb\c392\c44706\c81176;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93
\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
These statements, all drawn from recent academic research in literary studies, represent the tip of a giant methodological iceberg. They signal a much larger and much less well-known problem of what I will be calling the practice of generaliza- tion. \'93Generalization\'94 is the rhetorical strategy whereby we move from partial evidence to knowledge claims about some larger group or category. Whether authors are describing \'93humanists,\'94 \'93the human,\'94 \'93Western philology,\'94 \'93litera- ture,\'94 or simply \'93art,\'94 what these statements all have in common is that they exceed, drastically and exorbitantly, the foundations of what has been observed to make claims about what is. 
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 This Element is about wrestling with this problem, with the gap between what is observed and what is known or, better, believed to be known. While this is a problem for all fields of knowledge, not to mention everyday life, one of the beliefs that I want to explore in this Element is that textual evidence poses distinct challenges for the practice of generalization, of how we move from examples to knowledge. What difference does the weave of written language make when it comes to thinking about the relationship of parts to whole?\cf2 \'94 (1)\
\'93\cf3 In plain terms, generalization involves the act of moving from tokens (instances of things) to types (a single representation of a more general category).\cf2 \'94 (2)\
\'93\cf3 First, what does it mean to generalize about texts and literary texts in particular? What do generalizations look like in literary scholarship? Second, to what extent is this practice happening in our field? How prevalent are the generalizing claims like the ones I cited earlier? Are there particular types of people, journals, or fields where it is happening more (or less) often? And when it is happening, what is the nature and scale of generalization? How can we better understand its scope and qualities? Finally, what, if anything, should we do about it?\cf2 \'94 (3)\
\'93\cf3 The more I read around in literary scholarship, including my own past work, the more I began to see how the very problems that were undermining the credibil- ity of claims in the sciences were endemic to literary studies as well. I began to marvel at the discrepancies between researchers\'92 claims, the amount of obser- vations used to make those claims, and the opacity of the methods used to arrive at critical judgments.\cf2 \'94 (3)\
\'93\cf3 The more I read, the more I saw how pervasive statements like Jameson\'92s were. And in a perverse kind of logic, it was as though the more sweeping and less well justified the claim, the more prestige one could accrue. Did people know what they were doing? And if so, why weren\'92t they concerned?\cf2 \'94 (4)\
\'93\cf3 To better understand the prevalence and nature of generalization within literary studies, this Element applies new techniques of machine learning and natural language processing to study a sample of more than 16,000 statements drawn from recent scholarship in three fields of study (history, sociology, and literary studies).
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf5 \up10 1 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It tries to offer readers one way of structuring an algorithmic- ally informed investigation of texts, in particular as a team-based, interdiscip- linary, and even intergenerational undertaking.\cf2 \'94 (4)\
\'93\cf3 the arrival at generalizable knowledge about texts is an essential aspect of the project of textual understanding\cf2 \'94 (5)\
\'93\cf3 In the discussion section (Part III), I entertain but ultimately eschew two simpler and more straightforward argu- ments: (1) we should either 
\i not
\i0  be generalizing at all because this is not what literary scholarship does or (2) we should 
\i only
\i0  be generalizing because this is the very definition of scholarship (in the German sense of 
\i Wissenschaft
\i0 , a body of knowledge) and therefore we require a massive overhaul of our methods to move largely away from case-based research.\cf2 \'94 (5)\
\'93\cf3 In place of these two more extreme positions, I argue instead for two more moderate ways forward, each of which is premised on differing notions of \'93openness.\'94 The first asks us to move from questions of evidentiary suffi- ciency \'96 when is some evidence 
\i enough
\i0  \'96 to questions of evidentiary trans- parency \'96 how much of the research process has been explicated?\cf2  \'85
\b \cf3 My aim here is to move past a two-cultures approach to evidence, where quantitative and qualitative methods operate and are valued according to different evidentiary criteria
\b0 .\cf2  \'85 \cf3 While we have made (some) strides in the area of open access with respect to publishing, we have not addressed the accessibility and openness of our methods, evidence, and modes of judgment in equal measure.\cf2 \'94 (6)\
\'93\cf3 The second moderate pathway argues that instead of seeing all literary scholarship as invested only and ever in making generalized claims about how texts work, that we take seriously the idea of the contingency of textual interpretation whose roots go back at least as far as Immanuel Kant. No amount of sampling or predictive modeling will ever fully explicate once and for all the question of textual meaning.\cf2 \'94 (6)\
\'93\cf3 in addition to the prevalence of generalization within the field, we can also find evidence for the ways in which scholarship in literary studies is indeed more conceptually and rhetorically open than work in the sciences. This is the second notion of openness that I want to emphasize here, not in the sense of transparency and visibility, but as a form of novelty and unknownness. To return to my earlier question, what is the value of engaging deeply with single things, this section argues that it can serve as a mechanism for producing a more interrogative and expansive mind-set.\cf2 \'94 (7)\
\'93\cf3 Seeing and celebrating
\b  the critical project of particularism as something partial rather than universal
\b0  will not only help us better 
\b account for what we are actually doing in our scholarship
\b0 . It will also help us see the relational value between these two methodological modes.\cf2 \'94 (7)\
\'93\cf3 my aim is to better understand the alignment (or in this case misalignment) between our discursive practices and epistemic ideals, what we say in our work and what we hope to know through it.\cf2 \'94 (7)\
\
Laplace to Gauss: \'93\cf3 Instead of relying on a single \'93best\'94 observation \'96 a model based on an authoritative observer \'96 scholars were putting into place a new model that took into account numerous observations to infer an \'93ideal\'94 observation. In one sense, both practices involved forms of idealization. The exemplary example was an ideal version of its kind, just as the inferred estimate based on a sample of observa- tions was. But according to the latter model, the accuracy of one\'92s insight depended on an understanding of the relationship of observations to each other rather than on a single, arbitrarily representative body. 
\fs24 \cf2 \'85 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Literary scholars have continued to overwhelmingly rely on methods that depend on an authoritative observer choosing the \'93best\'94 observa- tion(s) to prove some larger point.\cf2 \'94 (9)\
\'93\cf3 What I am calling the \'93curse\'94 of Lorenzo Valla, then, is the way these two opposing methodological aspects that coexist in Valla\'92s work do so in an undifferentiated way. According to Valla\'92s model, belief in the truth of some- thing is a function of two very different kinds of evidence: empirical observa- tions on the one hand and the power of exemplary words on the other. And yet these two very different modes of evidence are presented not in a complemen- tary way, where one informs the other, but as interchangeable. Where one falls short, the other is brought to bear. Valla silently moves from one mode to the other, with no indication of the vastly different principles underlying each. Rhetoric is all-too-conveniently swapped in for evidence.\cf2 \'94 (12)\
\'93\cf3 Instead of seeing these two positions as mutually exclusive, my aim in this Element is to begin to help us see how they can more productively inform each other. The first step in that process is acknowledging their different priorities and aims. Rather than continue to operate according to a substitution model, where 
\b rhetoric stands in for evidence, where interestingness becomes true (or the truth is only valued because it is interesting)
\b0 , we need to more clearly signal what our aims are with respect to our evidence.\cf2 \'94 (16)\
\'93\cf3 Reproducibility is by itself too narrow a concept to capture the ways in which we build confidence about how complex things in the world work. Imagination has a key role to play in the process, too. Work that fosters that imaginative landscape is thus intrinsically valuable to the research process. 
\fs24 \cf2 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 In his Logic of Scientific Discovery, Karl Popper argued that the goal of science was not \'93the preservation of untenable systems, but the selection of the most relatively tenable through the strictest possible form of competition\'94 (\cf5 1935\cf3 , p.14). I would posit the exact opposite axiom as equally important for literary study, if not all endeavors of knowledge production: not the selection of the most tenable system, but the explicit production of untenable systems, the imagination of all possible and impossible worlds. This is another value of openness that our field can contribute to the larger landscape of knowledge creation. How can the untenable and the hypothetical be used to inform our efforts at better understanding the world around us?\cf2 \'94 (17)\cf6 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf7 Conclusion 
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf7 On the Mutuality of Method 
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 In this Element, I have tried to show both the prevalence and semantic nature of generalization in the field of literary studies. According to the evidence provided here, I estimate that between one out of every two to three sentences in the opening and closing frames of research articles in the field contains a generaliza- tion. These levels appear to be roughly commensurate with quantitative research methods as exhibited by the sample of sociology articles. While we do see some important differences between different kinds of journals \'96 field-specific articles tend to have lower rates of generalization than generalist journals \'96 overall their rates are similar enough to suggest that there is field-wide consistency when it comes to the practice of generalization irrespective of researcher type. 
\fs24 \cf4 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Going further into the data, I also tried to highlight the scales at which literary studies operates, that is, to explicate the nature and scope of generalization when it is happening. Even though generalizations appear to be highly prevalent in the field, one might believe that these are likely to be more modest or at smaller scales than quantitative fields working with much greater amounts of evidence. On the contrary, according to our sample of data, the language most indicative of general- izing statements in literary studies disproportionately contains references to large- scale \'93literary,\'94 \'93cultural,\'94 \'93modern,\'94 or \'93human\'94 behavior. Literary studies does not shy away from working with the most general categories possible. Indeed, we saw a descending order of generality when it came to the framework of time in our articles. Where literary studies focuses the most on the \'93modern,\'94 history works with the \'93century,\'94 and sociology attends to the \'93year.\'94 There appears to be an inverse relationship between the scale of claims and scope of evidence provided. 
\fs24 \cf4 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 In addition to this analysis, I also tried to highlight the evidentiary lacunae that such generalizations can entail with respect to the manual sorting of 
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs16 \cf4 Downloaded from \cf8 https://www.cambridge.org/core\cf4 . IP address: 184.59.97.112, on 25 Sep 2020 at 20:55:30, subject to the Cambridge Core terms of use, available at \cf8 https://www.cambridge.org/core/terms\cf4 . \cf8 https://doi.org/10.1017/9781108922036 
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 72 Digital Literary Studies 
\fs24 \cf4 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 evidence. Generalizations serve as unproven and untested evidentiary short- hands to justify interpretive conclusions that have not been rigorously subject to scrutiny. In \cf5 Section 4\cf3 , \'93The Case for Open Generalization,\'94 I tried to list a variety of practices that we can engage in to subject our generalizations to greater transparency and, one hopes, to help moderate the scale, scope, and frequency of their occurrence. 
\fs24 \cf4 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 At the same time, I have also tried to draw attention to a very different research practice, one that goes back to the work of one of the founding figures of humanism, Lorenzo Valla, and what I call the work of \'93the open mind.\'94 This too draws on values of openness inspired by the open science movement. Rather than celebrate transparency as the sole ideal of research, however, it emphasizes conceptual and intellectual openness as important complements as well. My aim here has been to use the empirical methods afforded by the advances in machine learning and natural language processing to valorize the rhetorical and theoretical creativity of literary scholarship. We do not only generalize. Creative theoretical constructs are every bit as important in expanding our modeling of the world as principles of transparency are for improving the credibility of our modeling. 
\fs24 \cf4 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 In identifying these two strands within our research, my aim has been to reframe their relationship not as one of opposition or substitution, but of mutuality. Without empirical methods, we will never be able to validate the social value of our investment in conceptual openness other than through recourse to our own authority. On the other hand, all of the transparency in the world will never by itself allow us to discover anything novel and meaningful about the world. Without the creativity and flexibility incubated by the methods of the open mind, we will go on seeing the same thing over and over again, much like what Plato said about writing\'92s invention in the first place. 
\fs24 \cf4 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 At the same time, we cannot continue to substitute interestingness for evidence and maintain our credibility as a discipline. We need to do a better job of foregrounding theorizing as theoretical and generalizing as an empirical prac-tice, one that requires more reflection on the sufficiency of evidence informing the claims being made, as well as the theoretical richness of the framework being applied. What is required is a greater clarity of purpose, as well as mutuality of method. Rather than focus on being right or wrong in the absolute sense, or disavowing these categories altogether, we can strive to build confidence in our collective forms of knowledge about the world all the while continuing to imagine alternative versions. Maybe versioning might be the best way to capture this idea: the practice of turning scholarly vision around on itself in a continual practice of imaginative self-awareness. \cf2 \
}