{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 One of the pleasurable impulses that drives literary-historical research is the feeling that one\'92s explorations are special. Often it can seem as if you are the first person to read, or to care about, a text or a person in hundreds of years. That intimacy across time gains its sacred aura in part from its exclusivity; to love Jane Austen has a very different tenor than if one loves Charlotte Smith, or loves Susannah Goodall. Sharing one\'92s discoveries is a double-edged sword: love asks to be shared, but if it is shared 
\i too
\i0  successfully, one\'92s own love may be threatened with diminishment, lost in a more general and therefore less special love.\
Selecting items completely at random may seem to be a poor methodology to find a new love. But what reparative reading shows us is that the object of love need not be 
\i worthy
\i0  of that love; it may shape or colour the form of love, but the \'93plenitude\'94 comes from the lover, not the beloved. Any object becomes lovable when examined with a loving eye. To observe, in minute detail, is to love.\
\
Literature is, surely, tied to cultural capital. But it is also tied to pleasure, and potentially to love. When we discuss literature with others, we enter capital\'92s world; one may wish to seem erudite, or one may wish to seem \'93hip,\'94 and one may present a particular literary \'91face\'92 accordingly. But the literature one discusses need not align too closely with the literature one 
\i loves
\i0 . [This is too bland/generic, but also possibly getting toward the important thing]}