I hope you have had a lovely holiday! Thank you for your response. I am glad to hear the ETSC Board periodically releases data to researchers, and am happy to provide more detail.

**1. The data I would like to request**
The search I ran was formulated as follows: (Words= alldocuments and W-year= 1789->1799 and W-Country of publica= enk), which returned 52,001 results. The core 'summary' description of author, title, and imprint would be sufficient. A CSV file would be the most useful format for this data.

I appreciate your warning about the conjectural nature of some of the dates; I will follow Dr. Stoker's work closely as I work with Hannah More. I am primarily interested in the relative prevalence of various genres within this period, which I don't currently anticipate requiring precise timing within the decade. A decade is a very short time in the scope of literary history, after all! I am more interested in capturing a detailed snapshot than in seeking chronological change.

**2. The importance of the data to my research**
I anticipate using the ETSC data in two ways -- as an object of study in itself, and as a central index against which to organize my other data as I gather it.

Treating the ETSC entries as an object of study, I will likely do some very simple counting of things within the full body of 52,001 texts in the decade, text-mining the titles (I'm curious about the microgenres of, e.g., "adventures of a ___"), before following in the footsteps of Steven Zwicker to use random sampling to assemble a statistically representative but manageably smaller corpus of texts to examine more thoroughly. These randomly-sampled texts I will examine individually (tracking down additional information on their contents via other sources) to describe the 'average' practices within the literary marketplace, particularly as related to genre.

I will be also be working with a range of other bibliographic sources for my research, including small specialized bibliographies like Ann Tracy's The Gothic Novel 1790-1830: Plot Summaries and Index to Motifs as well as thematic corpora of full-text works like the Chawton House Library's body of women's writing. As I correlate these resources, the ETSC will simplify my process of identifying which works appear in multiple groupings by forming the master list against which other entries will be keyed.

Bridging those two uses, I am particularly interested to compare the broad 'demographics' of several corpora to the ETSC 1789-99 selections, to evaluate the extent to which, for example, the digital texts readily available through the Eighteenth Century Century Online Text Creation partnership are representative of the broader body of literature produced and consumed during that decade.

I could, if needed, find other ways to investigate literary production in England 1789-1799 on a large scale, but the decade's ETSC entries would prove invaluable to the computational 'distant reading' portion of my research.

**3. Sharing of data**
The data itself would not be shared, but the results of my findings I hope to share widely.

I plan to assemble a small relational database on my own personal computer, to work with all of my accumulated bibliographic information. I would include the 52,000 ETSC entries 1789-99 as a table within that database. The database would exist locally on my computer, and in back ups on secure hard drives and encrypted cloud-backup services; it would not be shared.

The results of my research will be described some years from now in my dissertation, which the University of Toronto will make available after my graduation. At this time, I am a second-year PhD student in a five-year program. I have completed my coursework and passed my comprehensive exams, and will sit my special fields exams some time in 2018. From that point, I will begin my dissertation in earnest, with a hopeful completion in August 2020. Along the way, intermediate results will be published in journal articles and presented at academic conferences.

---

Please let me know if you or the ETSC Board has any more questions or concerns.

Many thanks