Terry,

I was sorry to miss the WINCS event today -- as I feared, the flu is cruel and after my meeting with Alex Gillespie today it was time to get back into pajamas. I hope it went well! (I suppose this way I've spared Melissa Gniadek the risk of infection...)

On the dissertation front, I wanted your opinion regarding approaching Tom Keymer to be my third committee member. I do want two 18thC people! I met with Simon Dickie last week (I took a class on Tom Jones with him) but he seemed lukewarm on our research fit, and suggested Keymer; I've never met Keymer, but I've read his work, and Alex suggested that I reach out to him by email. I'll be drafting that email next and perhaps passing it by you two, if Keymer sounds like a good option?

As for the actual substance of the dissertation -- I think I need to decide soon between a narrow 1790s cross-media inquiry, and the broader 18thC investigation of the uses of Shakespeare, since they would lead to different special fields reading lists. It's clear that the first approach to cross-media writers is tapping into very fertile ground of interest to the field (I haven't yet done justice to the reading you've pointed me toward), but as I've continued to talk through these options with others, the Shakespeare project is of much more interest to DH people. Computationally, it's a tricky but not impossible problem to find paraphrases or veiled allusions to Shakespeare -- I could build on the work in this paper on Eliza Haywood, to contribute something substantive and useful. I imagine that the results of such an inquiry would point me toward several case-studies allowing me to structure each chapter around representative close-readings. But it wouldn't be the same as starting with, e.g. Godwin's Political Justice / Caleb Williams / Faulkner (a dramatization of Defoe? Exciting!).

Right now, it's clear to me that I have the materials I require, and I need to do several days of serious work reading, and writing concrete proposals. Whenever I'm not sure what I think, I start writing out all my options simultaneously, and see which one is the smoothest and most convincing -- I think I can finish that process by Monday.

Alex thought it would be a good idea for the four of us to meet -- you, me, her, and my second eighteenth-centuryist -- to hash out the plan. For me to then revise the results by the Nov 1 deadline, that meeting would have to happen some time next week -- does that sound feasible?

Many thanks,
Lawrence