The full CSV is attached. I promised the English Short Title Catalogue not to publish this data, so please don't distribute it to your students or, I guess, print it out and flyer it all over campus.

Information of two sorts follow: 1, more info on my desired output; 2, a question about data structures

1. I hand-simplified a bunch of publishers, with my results in the "Simplified Publisher" column. Skimming it should give you an idea of the kinds of problems we're looking at here. I targeted T. Cadell because two of my authors publish with him, which might have been a mistake since he seems to be a very popular publisher.

The decisions I made while I classified them seemed like they might be tricky to do computationally (for example, there turned out to be a T. Cadell and a T. Cadell junior!), but it would definitely take weeks to do by hand -- something imperfect that only took a few days to hand-correct would be a huge time-saver.

Maybe if it tried to make an internal list of publishers that exist?? If a program split apart each publisher listed in the "publishers" column, so that I only had to say "Mr. Cadell" = "T. Cadell" one time, that would substantially simplify my work.

2. Did I put the publishers into the "Simplified Publishers" column in a way that will be as useful as possible long-term? It would be really, really cool to see which publishers published with each other and when, though, piecing together a social network map of the British publishing industry 1789-99 (plus, then, which authors are connected to each other by their publishers!!) -- would that kind of analysis be possible if the "Simplified Publisher" column contains a bunch of individual publishers separated by semicolons? (That's how it is now.)

E.g., would I be able to manipulate the following entries to see who published with T. Cadell, who published with A. Strahan, and who published with both? (And ignore W. Creech)

Book 1 , A. Strahan
Book 2 , A. Strahan ; T. Cadell
Book 3 , A. Strahan ; T. Cadell ; W. Creech
Book 4 , T. Cadell
Book 5 , T. Cadell ; W. Creech

This is, I guess, a data structures problem: I want all these strings to be shoved into a bucket together, with each bucket attached to a book as a whole bucket but also able to take one string out of the bucket independently while still attaching it to the book. In Python, do I want... a dict??

If we can work this out, there is absolutely a journal article on the publisher social network, so I'd be willing to do a lot of heavy-lifting to help it happen!