Greetings, family! I have called you all here today to consult on a matter of computation.

So, as you may know, I have bibliographic data on roughly 52,000 works published in England 1789-99, which I am meddling with for my dissertation. I have encountered a question that I don't know how to start answering:

What is the average number of publishers that each author publishes with, per work produced?

My problem is that the publishers' named are not remotely standardized. When I am dealing with only a few works it is easy enough to manually merge, for example, the following:

	British Library ; John Bell ; Strand
	British Library ; Strand ; sold by Mr. Bell
	British Library ; J. Bell ; Strand
	British Library ; J. Bell ; Strand

but of course, by default only those last two are recognized as being the same.

Can a program be written to group these for me?? If I had a CSV file with the original publisher in one column and the simplified/condensed publisher (e.g., "J. Bell") in the next column, it would be easy for me to key the one to the other and work with the simplified publishers going forward.

They look tricky to identify computationally... here's another set I'd like to be all one: 

	T. Spence ; hive of liberty, No. 8, Little-Turnstile, High-Holborn
	T. Spence, dealer in coins, No. 8, Little Turnstile, High Holborn
	T. Spence, No. 8. Little Turn-Stile High-Holborn
	T. Spence, No.8, Little Turnstile, High Holborn
	Thomas Spence, no. 8, Little-Turnstile, High Holborn

I don't need first names or addresses, so "T. Spence" is fine for all of those.

But publishers periodically group together, so of this set I would want to merge some but not all:

	T. Pearson
	T. Pearson & B. Law, London	
	T. Pearson & sold by R. Baldwin, London
	T. Pearson, Birmingham ; sold by George Gower. Sold
	T. Pearson, Birmingham ; sold by R. Baldwin, Pater-Noster-Row, London
	Thomas Pearson ; sold by B. Law, London
	Thomas Pearson ; sold by R. Baldwin, London
	Thomas Pearson ; sold by R. Baldwin, Pater-Noster Row London
	Thomas Pearson. For J. Johnson, No. 72, St. Paul's Church Yard, London
	Thomas Pearson. Sold by J. Johnson, St. Paul's Church-Yard, London
	Thomas Pearson. Sold by R. Baldwin, No. 47, Pater-Noster Row, London

(I'd like to have groups for "T. Pearson", "T. Pearson & B. Law", "T. Pearson & G. Gower", "T. Pearson & R. Baldwin", "T. Pearson & J. Johnson".)

Would it be faster to code something for this, or to do it all by hand? It looks like... a huge mess! But if it was possible to code something for this, I suspect I would end up using the program again on future datasets of bibliographic information.

What is your advice?