Dr. Keymer,

Hello! I hope you have been enjoying your leave.

We haven't met, though you kindly invited me to consider the Book History program when I was first admitted to U of T's PhD program. Alex Gillespie suggested that I reach out to you now -- I am starting my second year and putting together my dissertation proposal and my committee.

I am interested in computational approaches to eighteenth century literature. The Digital Humanities element of my work has led to my somewhat unusual supervisory set-up: Dr. Gillespie will be helping me build a portfolio in DH as my supervisor, with Terry Robinson as a crucial committee member directing the substance of my research. The greatest danger of computational research, I've found, is the lure of the gimmick: I would be grateful for feedback from someone with so much experience in the eighteenth century and book history, as I develop my project.

A rough sketch of said project:

My research to this point has centered on contextualizing Ann Radcliffe and Matthew Lewis in relation to their now-forgotten contemporaries. For my MA, I looked at bibliographical metadata for a couple hundred Gothic novels 1790-1830, curious to see if contemporary patrons of circulating libraries would have encountered distinct male and female Gothics. The answer was a resounding "sort of": some topics, like consummated incest, were clearly the province of male authors only, but with no corresponding women-only features that I could find. The womblike subterranean passages typically treated as a 'Female Gothic,' for example, turned out to be particular to Radcliffe rather than women at large, and she was outnumbered by the many male authors who wrote about caves full of banditti or the Illuminati. As that project indicates, I'm interested in finding ways to cope with the "great unread."

For my dissertation, I'd like to break away from treating the Gothic as a singular, self-contained field. I want to better account for its overlap with the sentimental novel, and with tragic theatre and sensationalist news writing. Accordingly, I intend to take advantage of the scope of the dissertation to consider popular writing, broadly construed, in the period 1789-1816. In addition to Radcliffe and Lewis, whose non-novelistic writing I will add to my understanding of their ouvres, I will look at a few more 'representative' popular writers, with an emphasis on those who wrote in multiple mediums (e.g., novels, plays, essays, poetry). Right now those authors are likely to include Elizabeth Inchbald, Charlotte Turner Smith, Hannah More, and/or Samuel Taylor Coleridge -- as my selected dates indicate, I am interested in writers with political as well as aesthetic agendas. I would have the double intention of determining what they each accomplished with their use of varying generic forms, and of comparing their practices to those of their now-forgotten peers.

The first step will be creating an exceptionally large spreadsheet as I assess what was produced during those years, what bibliographical metadata is available, and which texts I can acquire in digital formats. My attempt to avoid 'gimmick' has me delaying the design of specific computational experiments until after I've done this initial descriptive work; I've spent the last few years acquiring a varied technical toolset, so I will have many options. 

I'm excited to start fleshing out these intentions as I prepare my Special Fields reading list, and, as I said, would greatly appreciate your feedback as I move forward. My formal Preliminary Thesis Proposal is not yet fully complete, but may I send it to you when it is?

Many thanks,
Lawrence Evalyn