{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 159\cf4  - Poetry; original and selected	Monograph	Monograph	Literature and Language I.	[1796-98]	Gale	London, United Kingdom		British Library	null	GALE|CW0115892706	\
\cf2 170\cf4  - Sir, You are desired to meet the committee for improving the navigation of the River Thames, and for preventing encroachments on the said river, on board the navigation barge, at Staines, on Saturday, the 7th day of July 1798, at eight o'clock in the morning, and proceed from thence down the river at nine precisely, ...	Monograph	Monograph	Social Sciences II.	[1798]	Gale, a Cengage Company	Oxford, United Kingdom	Great Britain. Commissioners Appointed for Improving and Completing the Navigation of the Rivers Thames and Isis	Bodleian Library, University of Oxford	null	GALE|CB0130118850	\
\cf2 190\cf4  - Thoughts concerning the proper principles of finance, that ought to be adopted at present, and in future, in support of the British government. Addressed To The Freeholders And Mercantile Interest Of Leeds, Wakefield, Halifax, Huddersfield, Bradford, Doncaster, Hull, And The Other Towns In The County Of York. By a freeholder of Yorkshire	Monograph	Monograph	Social Sciences I.	1798	Gale	Lawrence, KS, United States	James Cochrane	Spencer Research Library, University of Kansas	null	GALE|CW0107793549	\
\cf2 919\cf4  - National blessings considered and improved, in a sermon, preached on Thursday, November 29, 1798. By Alex. Black, Minister, Musselburgh	Monograph	Monograph	Religion and Philosophy I.	1798	Gale	London, United Kingdom	Alexander Black	British Library	null	GALE|CW0123387895	\
\cf2 1792\cf4  - False impressions: A comedy in five acts. Performed at the Theatre Royal, Covent Garden. By Richard Cumberland, Esq.	Monograph	Monograph	Fine Arts II.	1798	Gale, a Cengage Company	London, United Kingdom	Richard Cumberland	British Library	Eighteenth Century Collections Online	GALE|CB0129794221	\
\cf2 2136\cf4  - The surprizing adventures, of Jack Oakum, & Tom Splicewell, two sailors, who went a pirating on the Kings' highway. How that the first [prize] they took gave information of their course, and being pursued by a whole squadron, Tom Spicewell was taken and condemned to be hanged [:] but by means of his beloved friend Jack Oakum, who interested with his Majesty, he was pardoned.. Also a copy of Jack's polite letter to the King, on the above occasion. To which is added, The merry revenge; [our,] Joe's stomach in June	Monograph	Monograph	Literature and Language I.	1798	Gale	Oxford, United Kingdom		Bodleian Library, University of Oxford	null	GALE|CW0116560788\
\cf2 2242\cf4  - The American preceptor; being a new selection of lessons for reading and speaking. Designed for the use of schools. By Caleb Bingham, A.M. author of The Columbian orator, Child's companion, &c. [One line of quotation] Published according to act of Congress	Monograph	Monograph	Literature and Language II.	1798	Gale, a Cengage Company	Boston, MA, United States	Caleb Bingham	Boston Public Library	null	GALE|CB0130828924	\
\cf2 2259\cf4  - The letters of Junius	Monograph	Monograph	Literature and Language I.	1798	Gale	Cambridge, MA, United States	Junius	Houghton Library, Harvard University	null	GALE|CW0110410930	\cf2 \
2365\cf4  - Gil Blas corrig\'e9; ou histoire de Gil Blas de Santillane. Par M. Le Sage. Dont on a retranch\'e9 les expressions & passages contraires \'e0 la d\'e9cence, ... & \'e0 laquelle on a ajout\'e9 un recueil de traits brillans, des plus c\'e9l\'e8bres po\'ebtes fran\'e7ois. Par J. N. Osmond. ...	Monograph	Monograph	Literature and Language I.	1798	Gale	Oxford, United Kingdom	Alain Ren\'e9 Le Sage	Bodleian Library, University of Oxford	Eighteenth Century Collections Online	GALE|CW0116687637\cf2 \
3511\cf4  - A Plain narrative of facts respecting the trial of James Coigley; Including his letter to an Irish gentleman, in London, and A. Young's letter to G. Lloyd	Monograph	Monograph	Law II.	1798	Gale, a Cengage Company	Cambridge, United Kingdom		University of Cambridge Library	null	GALE|CB0132172434	}