{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \'93So the debate centers not on facts or figures but rather on a more fundamental issue: how to theorize the meaning of *popularity* in the book trade and, specifically, how to interpret the relationship between market share and reprint rates when assessing popularity. We developed the concept of *structures of popularity* because we believe that these two criteria should be considered in dynamic relation to each other, to total number of editions, and to profitability. Blayney, on the other hand, argues that the total number of editions (and thus the market share) of sermon-books "completely vitiates" the usefulness of playbook reprint rates as an index of popularity.\'94 (207)\
\
\'93we need to consider both total number of editions and frequency of reprinting, as well as market share and profitability. No single one of these four measurements by itself equates directly to popularity in the book trade; each addresses different questions about the market performance of books, and each points to a different aspect of both supply and demand.\'94 (208)\
\
"a reprint indicates that the previous edition had sold out (or was about to sell out) and that the publisher anticipated enough continuing demand to justify a further edition. The reprint rate for an entire class of books tells us how frequently a given title within that class achieved this type of economic success and, consequently, how often a publisher had the chance to enjoy the increased profits possible with reprint editions. Reprint rates, therefore, allow us to auge both the demand among retail customers for certain classes of books and the investment risk faced by speculating publishers.\'94 (208)\
\
Need to look at reprint rates, not just total number of reprints; playbooks twice as likely to be reprinted, even though there were twice as many second-ed sermon books\
\
"Readers interested in how the chi-square test is performed can consult <http://www.georgetown.edu/faculty/ballc/webtools/web_chi.html or any introductory statistics textbook.\'94 (209)\
\
Blayney's semi-bad-faith argument about Tomkis v Shakespeare turns out to be solved with chi-square test -- samples are too small for variation to be statistically significant\
\
"What the comparison of playbooks and semon-books reveals is that neither market share nor reprint rates tells the entire story of \'91popularity\'92.\
Thus while we agree with Blayney about the facts concerning the market shares of sermon-books and playbooks, we differ over how those facts relate to reprint rates and to \'91popularity' in the book trade.\'94 (211)\
\
\'93...books could be in high demand even though their reprint rate was low. Likewise, books (such as ballads) could be in high demand even though their profitability per copy was low. And, as seems to have been the case with plays, books could be in high demand even though their market share was low.\'94 (213)\
\
\'93An approach based on structures of popularity this attempts not merely to measure comparative popularity but also to explain why and how different kinds of books were published.\'94 (213)}