{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red38\green38\blue38;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\csgray\c20000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;
\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid302\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid502\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid702\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid802\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid901\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid10}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 This dissertation takes \'93the literary canon\'94 as its primary urgent problem. \'93The Digital Humanities\'94 often presents itself as a solution to, or a way to sidestep, the presumed exclusionist logic of \'93the literary canon.\'94\
\
Like Guillory, I reject the \'91exclusion hypothesis\'92 of explaining canon formation.\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li2160\fi-2160\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl2
\f1 \cf3 \'93...it must also be borne in mind that the archives preserve (and bury) hundreds and thousands of writers, of various social origins and identities. The question for us, in reconsidering the rhetoric of canon revision, is 
\b wh\cf4 y\cf3  any particular noncanonical author discovered by a research program has to be presented as 
\i excluded
\i0  from the canon
\b0 .\'94 (16)\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf3 \'93In the case of the literary curriculum, I propose that 
\b the problem of what is called canon formation is
\b0  best understood as a problem in the constitution and distribution of cultural capital, or more specifically,
\b  a problem of access to the means of literary production and consumption. 
\b0 The "means" in question are provided by the school, which regulates and thus distributes cultural capital unequally.\'94 (Ix)
\f0 \cf2 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
DH scholars often call for a reconception of the object of literary study, or of the category of \'91literature\'92 \'97 I agree, but want to do this in a way that focalizes class, as Guillory does\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f1 \cf3 \'93
\b If literary criticism is ever to conceptualize a new disciplinary domain, it will have to undertake first a much more thorough reflection on the historical category of literature;
\b0  otherwise I suggest that new critical movements will continue to register their agendas symptomatically, by ritually overthrowing a continually resurgent literariness and literary canon. At the same time it is unquestionably the case that the several recent crises of the literary canon\'97its 'opening\'92 to philosophical works, to works by minorities, and now to popular and mass cultural works--amounts to a terminal crisis, more than sufficient evidence of the urgent need to reconceptualize the object of literary study.\'94 (265)\cf2 \
This is why DH scholars thing DH can \'91solve\'92 literary canons, but also how DH can fail: \cf3 \'93
\b The fact of class determines whether and how individuals gain access to the means of literary production, and the system regulating such access is a much more efficient mechanism of social exclusion than acts of judgment
\b0 .\'94 (Ix)\cf2 \
\
Technical literacy can be its own barrier. But honestly, this is just still true about schools, and still important/relevant. The \'93public humanities\'94 can be viewed with suspicion, as perhaps unscholarly or dangerous, because they try to make literature easy/accessible\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl1\cf3 \'93
\b the mode of consumption demanded by the products of restricted production offered to the dominant classes a more reliable means of restricting access to the work of art than the mechanism of price itself.
\b0  This was a consequence of the fact that the mode of consumption appropriate to the objects of restricted pro-/duction assumed the possession of the cultural capital provided by a particular kind of 
\i education
\i0 \cf4  \'85 \cf3 as cultural works recede into the past, the\cf4 y\cf3  simultaneously gravitate into the realm of 'restricted production'... by virtue of the fact that the knowledge required to decipher them is the cultural capital of the school." (\cf4 329-\cf3 330)\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf3 "
\b In a culture of such universal access, canonical works could not be experienced as they so often are, as lifeless monuments, or as proofs of class distinction.\cf2 \'94 (340) \'97 
\b0 if a \'91canonical\'92 work is experienced as pleasurable this challenges the paradigm
\f0 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
I use the 1790s to figure out this stuff because the 1790s have a LOT of canon-related baggage, as Guillory focalizes\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl1
\f1 \cf3 \'93the first crisis in the status of the vernacular canon, the problem of assimilating new vernacular genres such as the novel. Wordsworth and Coleridge responded to this crisis with a programmatic attempt to reaffirm the High Cultural status of traditional canonical works in English against, on the one hand, popular novels and narrative poetry, and, on the other, the quasi-Latinate "poetic diction" supposed to have characterized especially the work of Gray. The effect of that program, which was of course shared by a literary culture much larger than the circle of Wordsworth and Coleridge, was to reserve the term "literature" for High Canonical works, and in this way to maintain the cultural capital of those works.\'94\'94 (Xi)\cf2 \
\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl1
\f2\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 I\'85 think I reject the concept of \'91the literary\'92?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0
\f2\fs24 \cf3 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 \'93
\b in fact 'aesthetic value' is nothing more or other than cultural capital
\b0 ." (332)\cf2 \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0
\f2\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 I bring Guillory\'92s mode of analysis into the digital age by exploring how \'91access\'92 has continued to be, in altered form, the \'91logic\'92 of literary debates. DH\'92s utopian drive comes from the idea of universalizing access, providing the real change in material circumstances that Guillory says is needed. Our limitations come from the way that we limit access in different places, now.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl1
\f1 \cf3 Bourdieu: \'93\'91[T]o deny evaluative dichotomies is to pass a morality off for a politics. The dominated in the artistic and the intellectual fields have always practiced that form of radical chic which consists in rehabilitating socially inferior cultures of the minor genres of legitimate culture. ... To denounce hierarchy does not get us / anywhere. 
\b What must be changed are the conditions that make this hierarchy exist, both in reality and in minds. We must\'97I have never stopped repeating it\'97work to 
\i universalize in reality the conditions of access
\i0  to what the present offers us that is most universal.
\b0 \'92" (\cf5 Qtd in Guillory \cf3 339-340)\cf4 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls9\ilvl1
\f2\fs24 \cf4 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 	\uc0\u8259 	\cf3 "
\b In a culture of such universal access, canonical works could not be experienced as they so often are, as lifeless monuments, or as proofs of class distinction.
\b0  Insofar as the debate on the canon has tended to discredit aesthetic judgment, or to express a certain embarrassment with its metaphysical pretensions and its political biases, it has quite missed the point. 
\b The point is not to make judgment disappear but to reform the conditions of its practice
\b0 . If there is no way out of the game of culture, then, even when cultural capital is the only kind of capital, 
\b there may be another kind of game, with less dire consequences for the losers, an 
\i aesthetic
\i0  game.
\b0  Socializing the means of production and consumption would be the condition of an aestheticism unbound, not its overcoming. But of course, this is only a thought experiment." (340)\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
I agree with Guillory about the \'93crisis of the humanities\'94. DH promises to save the humanities by rescuing its market value, by aligning it with marketable technical skills. This might work but also I HATE it.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls10\ilvl0\cf3 \'93The professional-managerial class has made the correct assessment that, so far as its future profit is concerned, the reading of great works is not worth the investment of very much time or money. The perceived devaluation of the humanities curriculum is in reality a decline in its 
\i market
\i0  value." (46)\cf2 \
}