{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Mary Robinson\'92s early biography shares striking resonances with that of Charlotte Smith. Robinson was also married at the age of sixteen to a man who squandered his income. Robinson spent more than a year in King\'92s Bench debtors\'92 prison with her husband and infant daughter, from 1774 to 1775, from which she published her first volume of poetry. Rather than immediately taking up the mantle of a professional author, however, in 1776 she became an actress. As an actress, she met increasing success for four seasons \'97 so much so that she attracted the attention in 1779 of the 17-year-old Prince of Wales, who determined to make her his mistress. After a period of semi-public flirtation, Robinson agreed, and retired from the stage. \'93Although the affair lasted less than a year, 'the Perdita' was notorious from then on; her gowns, her carriages, and her alliances became a constant source of discussion and speculation in the newspapers\'94 (Mark Ockerbloom). The Prince of Wales had given her a bond of \'a320,000\cf2  at the start of their relationship\cf0 , but \cf2 when their relationship soon ended, he \cf0 refused to pay. \'93She demanded \'a325,000 for the return of the prince's letters. She apparently settled for \'a35,000, paid by George III \'91to get my son out of this shameful scrape.\'92 It was enough to stave off her creditors. In 1782, Mary obtained a further \'a3500 annuity for herself, and a \'a3200 annuity during the life of Maria Elizabeth, in return for the surrender of the Prince's bond.\'94 (Mark Ockerbloom). Robinson continued to live in high society and the public eye, involved with Lord Malden, and then with Colonel Banastre Tarleton in a relationship which would be her longest. In 1783, Tarleton\'92s debts grew pressing, and his family attempted to sever his relationship with Robinson by promising to pay them if he moved to France without her. He left England in July 1783. Robinson, pregnant, borrowed money for his debts and set out alone to intercept him in Dover. The rough travel led to a miscarriage, the mistreatment of which ultimately paralyzed Robinson\'92s legs and left her with acutely painful rheumatism the rest of her life.\cf2  For the next five years,\cf0  Tarleton and Robinson lived variously in France, Germany, and England, variously together and apart. At one point, while Tarleton lived with Robinson in England, \'93Mary's possessions were seized and auctioned off. She saved only the diamond-studded portrait of the Prince of Wales\'94 (Mark Ockerbloom). In 1788, Tarleton\'92s fortunes and Robinson\'92s health had recovered enough for her to move \cf2 permanently\cf0  back to England, and the two established neighbouring households on Clarges Street in London. Over the next decade, they continued their relationship, while Tarleton\'92s political career and Robinson\'92s literary one both flourished. In 1797, Tarleton ended the relationship, and in 1798 married a young heiress, to Robinson\'92s dismay. Her health worsened, and she died 26 December 1800, aged 43.}