{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 According to the English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC), the most popular English authors of the 1790s were Thomas Paine, Hannah More, John Wesley, and William Shakespeare. Of course this claim immediately falls apart on further scrutiny. In fact, by the metric of \'91unique entries in the ESTC database,\'92 the most popular author of the decade is by far Great Britain, followed by Great Britain, Great Britain, Great Britain, and King George {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://85A8286C-9B58-4D8E-8C43-59111DB91ECD"}}{\fldrslt III.}} Paine, More, Wesley and Shakespeare are only able to rise to our notice if we intervene in the dataset to filter out all authors whose names contain the phrase \'93Great Britain\'94; otherwise, Shakespeare is outnumbered by the House of Lords and by the Church of England. \cf2 And a single paragraph cannot contain all of the reasons that the quantity of unique entries in a database would not correlate with any useful definition of popularity -- although later parts of this dissertation will undertake to enumerate them at greater length. \cf0 These claims demonstrate that a poorly\cf2  \cf0 formed question will produce a useless and stupid answer even (or perhaps especially) if computation is used to answer it. This dissertation is dedicated to the formulation of better questions. I am interested in the limits of the generalizations that we make, both in \'93distant reading\'94 research and in non-digital {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5CF3BF85-4F2E-46A9-B639-0E5F8A65DCC5"}}{\fldrslt scholarship}}. I take as my starting point the contention that, in order to identify what is \'93popular\'94 or \'93important,\'94 we must also understand what is normal. At its core, my question is: given that it is not possible to read everything (or even most things), how do we, and how 
\i should
\i0  we, determine what to read, preserve, study, and teach? This \'93question\'94 is, of course, many questions: what we do is by no means what we 
\i should
\i0  do; what we read is not necessarily what we study or teach. It is also an old, nearly an old-fashioned question. The current moment of self-reflection in the field of Digital Humanities, however, provides a timely reason to revisit it. Even literary scholars who do not carry out \'93Digital Humanities\'94 research are impacted by the corpus-building choices of major digital resources, since all literary research is now mediated at some level by search algorithms and databases, even if this mediation is as small as looking up the holding libraries for physical copies of texts. It is therefore relevant to the field as a whole if, as I contend, corpus-building has become the new canon-building: an invisible and naturalized process of selecting texts for idiosyncratic and historically-specific reasons, and then treating those individual texts as ideal representatives of an imagined \'93whole\'94 of literature. }