{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\csgray\c20000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Bill Readings\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf3 \'93Guillory seems almost to have rephrased Harold Bloom\'92s account of the anxiety of influence in sociological terms: literary culture emerges as always already anxious about its own waning influence, torn between a general claim about culture and a need to restrict that culture in order to preserve or restore its purity, to establish its distinctiveness and assure its status as cultural capital.\'94\cf2  (Readings 322)\
\cf3 \'93As Balibar and others have insisted, the canon is a false problem, if we only ask what it contains and neglect the social forms of distribution that it implies. We need to look at the syllabus, the curriculum, and the educational system,refusing of the pretensions of the canon either to represent a culture or to present an inclusive account of cultures.\'94\cf2  (Readings 322)\
\cf3 \'93Guillory argues that political economy and aesthetics emerge as parallel discourses structured by their mutual forgetting of the other\'92s notion of value and by the struggle to distinguish the work of art from the commodity (317)\'94\cf2  (Readings 322)\
\cf3 \'93Guillory pointedly criticizes Smith for not having paid sufficient attention to Kant: she conflates aesthetics with aesthetic value and, like the Marxist critic Tony Bennet, takes value to be a property of the object rather than, as Kant argues, a matter of subjectivejudgment (276)\'94\cf2  (Readings 322)\
\cf3 \'93
\b \cf3 The issue here is not Guillory\'92sscholarship but whether his theoretical framework can successfully address the literary curriculum.
\b0 \cf3 \'94\cf2  (Readings 323)\
\cf3 \'93Chapter 1 calls for an analysis of the \'93systematicconstitution and distribution of cultural capital\'94 as part of a \'93project of political integration\'94 (82).Chapters z and 3 perform such analyses,yet do not reveal how an understanding of literature as cultural capital will lead to a reconception of the literary curriculum, let alone to political integration. In this sense they seem curiously parasitical on the system they expose and denounce. Chapter 4, on the canonization of literary theory, ends by demanding a reconceptualization of the object of literary study without suggesting what direction this might take (265). Likewise, after attacking institutional pedagogy, denouncing charismatic teaching and the role of affect, and finding in de Man and Lacan\'92s demands for rigor \'93the desire that the disciplesform a church\'94 ( 2 0 2 ) ,Guillory offers no account of an alternative pedagogy.\'94\cf2  (Readings 324)\
\cf3 \'93Guillory falls into the same trap he detects in Leavis: adversarial culture is devoted to its own effacement, since success means failure (loss of adversarial status)\'94\cf2  (Readings 324)\
\cf3 \'93Every critique of the system is shown to be a move within the system\cf2  \'85 \cf3 An other to the system is unthinkable. Hence, what is proposed is not an alternative but the more equal redistribution of capital within the system, which Guillory thematizes as increased \'93access\'94to cultural goods.\'94\cf2  (Readings 324)\
\cf3 \'93After several hundred dense pages these closing words make a rather particular claim for the redemptive power of the aesthetic. They suggest that we are not yet ready for Kant, that only after Marx has done his work and the means of production and consumption have been socialized can we really be Kantians, harmlessly engaging in the freeplay of aesthetic judgment.\'94\cf2  (Readings 325)\
\cf3 \'93The apparent plea for the relative autonomy of the aesthetic turns out to be a strong privileging of the economic base: only when social inequality has been set aside does aestheticjudgment become free. Aestheticism is thus unbound because the differences it makes will no longer be real, dire differences.\'94\cf2  (Readings 325)\
\cf3 \'93Only when analyses are entirely restricted within national frontiers can cultural capital seem fungible. Translatability is not a given: instead of describing cultural capital as the currency of a national totality, one has to ask \'93prestigefor whom?\'94Since culture is no longer one game but many heterogeneous games, there is no ready-made answer.\'94\cf2  (Readings 326)\
\cf3 \'93From this perspective, the underside of Guillory\'92s rephrasing of the canon debate in terms of the distribution of cultural capital appears.
\b \cf3  Does not the appeal to cultural capital finally mask the desire to preserve the nation state as the fundamental unit of cultural analysis
\b0 \cf3 , in a world in which global fusion (Wallerstein\'92s \'93geo-culture\'94) and national fission threaten its status? Is the nation-state-withering in the face of the Trans-National corporation-perhaps no longer the primary instance of the reproduction of capital?\'94\cf2  (Readings 326)\cf3 \
}