{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Women made up a nearly negligible portion of the titles published in England during the 1790s. If one were to choose a title at random, it would be more likely to be written by a man named John than by a woman. But we do not choose titles at random\'97 even in large-scale digital humanities research. We neglect the genres from which women are most strongly excluded: medical texts, legal texts, sermons, and other discourses tied to specialized (male) occupations. We prefer fiction and poetry, the forms most open to women. Even then, we overrepresent women. I want to be very explicit that the overrepresentation of women is not inappropriate: it strikes me as a very positive sign that we might have grown less sexist in the intervening two hundred years. Instead, the logic of \'93representation,\'94 which underpins discussion of literary canons and syllabi, is not a good fit for understanding the infrastructural impact of contemporary digital databases. \
\
Discovering that women account for only 3% of attributed authors at the end of the eighteenth century \
\
- 3% is really small\
- Scholarly work overrepresents women\
- It is fine and appropriate to overrepresent women, per Guillory\
\'97 A core contention of feminist scholarship is that works by women have a heightened relevance or historic interest to us today; scholarly attention does not need to exactly replicate past attention\
\'97\'97 We don\'92t have to be recovering \'93popular\'94 / \'93successful\'94 literature to make it interesting/worthwhile\
\
We have not truly grappled with the challenge that the eighteenth century poses to our idea of \'93the author.\'94\
\
\
}