{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red102\green102\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;
\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Project Gutenberg began in 1971 with one individual, Michael Hart, who did not begin with a specific project vision in mind. From the beginning, then, Project Gutenberg was not goal-oriented in the same way as the other resources under discussion. By this I mean that Project Gutenberg orients itself toward goals of a fundamentally different kind than the goals which structure other textual archives, not that it has no goal. Project Gutenberg is, in general, subject to being dismissed as unserious or lacking rigorous standards, but I argue that these dismissals come from a failure to recognize and respect the real goals, seriousness, and standards which drive the project. In the case of the project\'92s founding, that goal was not, as in the case of the other databases under discussion, to provide a particular kind of access to a particular kind of texts. Instead, the goal of Project Gutenberg was born from a moment of happenstance and nepotism by which Hart, a student at the time, was donated $100,000,000 of computer time on the Xerox Sigma V mainframe at the Materials Research Lab at the University of Illinois.\cf3  This mainframe was one of the first fifteen nodes on the early ARPANet, the precursor to the modern internet.\cf2  As Hart described it, he \'93decided there was nothing he could do, in the way of \cf4 \'91\cf2 normal computing,\cf4 \'92\cf2  that would repay the huge value of the computer time he had been given ... so he had to create $100,000,000 worth of value in some other manner\'94 (\'93History and Philosophy\'94). Rather presciently for 1971, Hart concluded that the greatest value computing would offer was the storage, searching, and retrieval of other materials. He therefore typed up and distributed the Declaration of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://144087D4-455D-4743-A0B5-9BBC3994BADC"}}{\fldrslt Independence.}} This became the first text of what would eventually become Project Gutenberg. It might even be considered the first ebook (according to Lebert 2008). Project Gutenberg was certainly \'93the first information provider on the internet and is the oldest digital library\'94 (Lebert).\
\'93During the fi\cf5 r\cf2 st twenty years, Michael Hart himself keyed in the first hundred books, with the occasional help of others from time to time.\'94 (Lebert)\
\'93when we started, the files had to be very small as a normal 300 page book took one meg of space which no one in 1971 could be expected to have (in general). So doing the U.S. Declaration of Independence (only 5K) seemed the best place to start. This was followed by the Bill of Rights \'97 then the whole US Constitution, as space was getting large (at least by the standards of 1973). Then came the Bible, as individual books of the Bible were not that large, then Shakespeare (a play at a time), and then into general work in the areas of light and heavy literature and references.\'94 (Hart \'93History and Philosophy\'94) \'93That edition of Shakespeare was never released, due to copyright changes. If Shakespeare's works belong to the public domain, the comments and notes may be copyrighted, depending on the publication date. But other editions belonging to the public domain were posted a few years later.\'94 (Lebert)}