{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Riddell talk: the British Library didn\'92t have ANY digital surrogates of multivolume 1836 novels! But they did have single volume 1836 novels, and multivolume 1838. This is sort of ok because those books did have surrogates elsewhere, but: WHY? A reminder that we need to be careful about taking collections of digital libraries at face value, 
\i even
\i0  with legal deposit libraries like the BL.\
In 2011 most people involved in data-intensive work would have assumed that virtually everything in a library would be digitized within a decade. This was justified\'97 Google had done a huge amount of digitization, and Google had publicly announced their plan to digitize every book ever published. We took them seriously. But Google did not follow it through. Not worried about distortion from advertising motives because \'93They didn\'92t 
\i repurpose
\i0  Google Books, they 
\i abandoned
\i0  it.\'94\
\
I\'92m intrigued by the puzzle you pointed out at the beginning, that it\'92s hard to \'91correct\'92 for digitization\'92s uneven sampling when we don\'92t expect novels to make up a stable percentage of the population.\
\
What HE really wants to do the German novel. They\'92re now working on 1862 (British novel).\
It would be great to get Troy and Garside\'92s databases in conversation with each other, but they use slightly different definitions of the novel. Riddell himself is out of his depth before 1810.}