{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Radcliffe\'92s biography, too, is short. Radcliffe never cultivated a public literary persona, which itself led to the development of a mythos of her seclusion. Scholars often turn to The Edinburgh Review to evoke the impact of her reticence: \'91She never appeared in public, nor mingled in private society, but kept herself apart, like the sweet bird that sings its solitary notes, shrouded and unseen\'92 ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8B3D8092-FDD0-48A3-BDE2-989BB5E84682"}}{\fldrslt NEED CITATION}}). In fact, so little was known about Radcliffe\'92s life that only sixty years after her death, Christina Rossetti abandoned a projected biography due to a lack of material (Rogers 2). Almost all biographical information comes from Thomas Noon Talfourd\'92s 1826 \'93Memoir of Radcliffe,\'94 written in close consultation with Ann Radcliffe\'92s husband William. Radcliffe kept extensive journals, which Talfourd occasionally extracts, but her manuscripts were all destroyed shortly after her death, with the exception of forty-two pages of her commonplace book from near the end of her life, and a two-sentence letter to a Miss Williamson (Rogers 2). Deborah Rogers\'92s 1996 
\i Ann Radcliffe: A Bio-Bibliography
\i0 , the first to examine the commonplace book, remains the best account of Radcliffe\'92s life and major works.\
 Some simple facts are known. She was born in London on July 9 1763, the only child of Ann Oates Ward and William Ward, a haberdasher who later managed a china shop. Both of her parents were close to their slightly more illustrious relatives, and encouraged an old-fashioned sense of gentility in their daughter (Rogers 3). Radcliffe was married in 1786 at age 23, to William Radcliffe, \'93a hardworking Oxford law graduate who became part-editor and owner of 
\i The English Chronicle
\i0 \'94 (Facer). Unlike Smith\'92s and Robinson\'92s husbands, William Radcliffe appears to have used the household\'92s funds fairly responsibly, though when Ann Radcliffe\'92s mother died, one stipulation of her will was that Ann\'92s inheritance not be used to pay any of William\'92s debts. Certainly, William Radcliffe promoted the image of himself as a nurturing helpmeet to his wife: \cf2 in \cf0 the \'91origin story\'92 of Ann Radcliffe\'92s writing which Talfourd writes based on William\'92s descriptions\cf2 , Talfourd \cf0 credits William with encouraging his wife\'92s shy talents. Facer says, \'93He often came home late and in order to occupy her time, Radcliffe began to write, reading aloud the lines she had written during the day on his return\'94 (Facer). Given how many critics emphasize Radcliffe\'92s obvious responsiveness to reviews \'97 each novel directly altering the aspects most criticized in the previous \'97 her writing seems not to have been 
\i entirely
\i0  an idle amusement to pass long hours. Her six major publications appeared rapidly between 1789 and 1797. In 1798, Radcliffe\'92s father died, leaving some of his property to Radcliffe, some to her mother, and a small amount to William himself should he outlive his wife (Rogers 11). In 1800, Radcliffe\'92s mother died as well, leaving her property to Radcliffe on the condition that nothing be left to William and none of the money be used to pay William\'92s debts (Rogers 11-12). In 1802, Radcliffe wrote, but did not publish, 
\i Gaston de Blondville, 
\i0 her last major work of writing.\
That Radcliffe lived another twenty-six years after the publication of 
\i The Italian
\i0  with no further works is a fact which has apparently demanded explanation since the eighteenth century. \'93In the total absence of documentation, contemporaries were willing to believe, presumably because she was the reserved (female) author of Gothics, that Radcliffe was insane. \'85 So reticent and self-effacing was Radcliffe that she never corrected rumors of her death or madness\'94 (Rogers 13). Her husband was more interested in countering these rumours, and after her death in 1823 publicized a report from her doctor unequivocally stating that she had died of asthma and that her \'93mind was perfect in its reasoning powers {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://43FC64BC-216D-4715-BE86-F27FEDC0AFEE"}}{\fldrslt (E131 104)\'94 (Rogers 20)}}, suggesting instead that Radcliffe had withdrawn from publication after her inheritance made the increased income no longer important to maintain the luxuries of her life. Scholars largely accept this financial explanation, and add to it the explanation that Radcliffe had always been a fundamentally shy person who found public criticism of her writing distressing. Although her works were widely praised, they received so much attention that inevitably there were also critiques, and she may have wanted to remain distant from \'93the parodies as well as the many inferior imitations of her work\'94 (Rogers 13).\
Radcliffe spent the second half of her life enjoying the domestic retirement praised within her novels, sometimes travelling within England with her husband. She died in 1823, evidently as a result of the asthma which had caused recurring problems for the last twelve years of her life (Rogers 13).}