{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
It is clear that in the first decade of the eighteenth century \'91Locke on government\'92 did in fact achieve distinctive status. In 1703 Leslie was provoked to his assault by the reputation of \'91the great L\'97k\'92 who, dangerously, \'91makes the consent of every individual necessary\'92 (
\i RLP
\i0 , ii, p. 62). In 1709 a cartoon depicted the Whig polemi- cist Benjamin Hoadly at his writing desk with \'91Locke on government\'92 on his bookshelf. By 1716 the 
\i Two Treatises 
\i0 was quoted in parliament. Locke\'92s influence was facilitated by informal means of transmission. The anonymous 
\i Vox Populi, Vox Dei 
\i0 (1709) was a bestselling anthology comprising extracts from Whig-approved texts, including the 
\i Two Treatises
\i0 . Extracts from the 
\i Two Treatises 
\i0 also appeared in John Toland\'92s 
\i Anglia Libera 
\i0 (1701) and else- where. Some early readers of the 
\i Two Treatises 
\i0 saw it as a handbook for political education, designed to wean the gentry elite from the dangerous (and largely clerical) absurdities of pre-Revolution doctrine. It represented a guide to \'91polite\'92 citizenship, free of the sycophantic dogmas of absolutist Court society. This role is explicit in William Atwood\'92s 
\i Fundamental Consti- tution of the English Government 
\i0 (1690) which urged that people should \'91take every morning some pages of the 
\i Two Treatises of Government
\i0 , for an effec- tual catholicon against nonsense and absurdities\'92 (
\i RLP
\i0 , i, p. 39). The 
\i Two Treatises 
\i0 continued to be an instrument of instruction against the follies of the \'91divine right of kings\'92 in Hoadly\'92s works and in John Shute Barrington\'92s 
\i The Revolution and Anti-Revolution Principles Stated 
\i0 (1714). 
\fs24 \
(p 48)}