{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Much of More\'92s personal life centred around educational ventures.\cf2  In 1758, when More was thirteen,\cf0  her eldest sister Mary More opened a girls\'92 boarding school, which Hannah More would \cf2 soon \cf0 assist in running. In 1762, this school moved to larger premises. In 1767, More accepted a proposal of marriage from William Turner\cf2 , though this did not end in marriage:\cf0  \cf2 \'93After a rather humiliating six-year courtship (during which the pending marriage was postponed three times by the gentleman), a settlement was reached on behalf of More by her family, resulting in an annuity that granted her enough financial independence to embark on a literary career\'94 (Prior). When the engagement was finally broken in 1773, More made her first visit to London, and her life\'92s focus shifted from education to literature. She moved in literary circles, joined the Bluestockings, and particularly befriended the famous actor David Garrick. \cf0 More \cf2 wa\cf0 s the \'93permanent house guest\'94 \cf2 (Stott) \cf0 of David and Eva Garrick from 1776 until David Garrick\'92s death in 1779, after which she remain\cf2 ed\cf0  in the household as Eva Garrick\'92s companion.\cf2 \
However, after Garrick\'92s death (and the failure of her third play, also in 1779), More\'92s focus shifts again, from London literary life to religious life. Her interest in the growing movement of Evangelicals ultimately brought her to the Clapham Sect, whose foremost cause was the abolition of the slave trade (Prior). She returned to Somerset, buying her own house, Cowslip Green, in 1785, and in religion brought her back to education. She and her sister \cf0 Patty More found\cf2 ed\cf0  the first of the Mendip Schools at Cheddar, Somerset\cf2  in 1789\cf0 ; other schools follow at Shipham, Rowberrow, Nailsea, Blagdon\cf2 ,\cf0  Wedmore\cf2 , and elsewhere (Stott)\cf0 .\cf2  \'93With the encouragement and support of the Clapham Evangelicals \'85 More undertook opening and operating Sunday Schools \'85 in order to teach the children of the laboring classes to read and write, to learn the catechism, and to lead moral lives informed by Christian teaching. Though the effort was clouded by political and theological controversy from various sides, More eventually opened sixteen schools that taught hundreds of students.\'94\cf0  \cf2 (Prior). \cf0 In 1790, the More sisters hand over the Park Street school to Selina Mills. In 1792, she founds women\'92s benefit clubs at Cheddar and Shipham. 1799 marks the beginning of the \'93Blagdon controversy\'94: \'93one of More's teachers is accused of Methodism; the accusation widens into a series of attacks on More for alleged religious and political subversion; as a result she suffers depression and nervous collapse and for a while is unable to write\cf2 ,\cf0 \'94 until 1802 (Stott).\cf2 \
\cf0 In 1801, \cf2 More retired\'97 somewhat. She moved to a new home, Barley Wood, outside the village of Wrington, but \'93[t]hough her years of publishing had come to an end, her pen was not stilled as she responded to the volumes of letters she received,\'94 and she continued to receive and advise many visitors (Prior). \cf0 In 1813 she found\cf2 ed\cf0  an auxiliary Bible Society at Wrington.\cf2  \'93She continued to support generously efforts at poverty-relief until her death. More died September 7, 1833, having survived all of her sisters and most of the members of her London circle of friends\'94 (Prior).}