{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 rst chapter suggests that many well- known changes in eighteenth- , nineteenth- , and twentieth- century 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction can be understood as parts of a single di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erentiating process that de-
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ned the subject, style, and pace of 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction through opposition to non
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction.\'94 (xiii)\
\
\'93one of the central arguments of this book is that contemporary quantitative methods can be very good at repre-senting perspectival problems and can give us leverage on that dimension of history.Questions of perspective may be the last place we would ex-pect to encounter math. In the twentieth century, numbers were used mostly for physical measurements (or demographic counts) that didn\'92t vary greatly from one observer to another. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 ose as-sociations have given many people the impression that Arabic numbers are somehow in themselves objective or aspire to be independent of social context. But if we look with fresh eyes at contemporary quantitative methods, we may notice that they are not distinguished by any aspiration to objectivity. Machine learn-ing, in particular, is causing public scandal because it tends to be all too sensitive to subjective contexts\'94 (xiv)\
\
\'93When scholars explicitly de
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ne a concept, we can craft a def-inition that aspires to neutrality. But the models produced by machine learning don\'92t rely on explicit de
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 nitions; instead, they learn concepts entirely from illustrative examples. Learning from examples makes machine learning 
\f1 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 exible but also very apt to pick up the assumptions or prejudices latent in a particular selec-/ tion of evidence. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 is has become a huge problem for institutions that are expected to be neutral arbiters. \'85 When we\'92re reasoning about the past, on the other hand, our aim is usually to acknowledge and ex-plore biases, not to e
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 ace them. Understanding the subjective preferences implicit in a particular selection of literary works, for instance, may be exactly the goal of our research. For this kind of project, it is not a problem but a positive advantage that machine learning tends to absorb assumptions latent in the evidence it is trained on. By training models on evidence selected by di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent people, we can crystallize di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent social perspectives and com-pare them rigorously to each other.
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 is approach, which I call \'93perspectival modeling,\'94 has taken shape only in the last few years. Readers who are familiar with other ways of using machine learning may need to set some as-sumptions aside. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e models created in this book are supervised: that is, they always start from evidence labeled by human readers. But unlike supervised models that try to divine the real author of an anonymous text, perspectival models do not aim simply to reproduce human judgment. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 ey are used instead to measure the parallax between di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent observers\'94 (xv)\cf3 \
\
\'93it is worth teasing out the assumptions implied by these succession stories\'97 which are not dominant, after all, in every corner of the university. Many disciplines tell their own stories instead as a cumulative process of expansion. \'85 Literary scholars, by contrast, commonly do 
\b assume that critical approaches are locked in dialectical struggle. And this assumption is not arbitrary
\b0 : the premise has been correct for much of our history. Critical debates amount to struggles over a scarce resource\'97 readerly attention.\'94 (Underwood 1)\
\'93our enterprise seems to 
\b draw meaning from the pressure of limited attention
\b0 : recovery projects become notable and important (rather than merely additive) when they argue that new discoveries force us to rede
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ne an established concept like Romanticism\'94 (2)\
\'93
\b Implicit in this self- understanding is an assumption that the broad divisions of literary debate are already known
\b0 : that we are unlikely to discover, for instance, a new genre or period in the archives.\'94 (2)\
\
\'93
\b Although Moretti ges-tures at a mass of unread works, literary scholars have been reluc-tant to believe that this really creates a new object of knowledge
\b0 , seeing instead a familiar dialectical move that plants a new 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 \cf3 ag on terrain of recognized signi
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 cance (say, detective 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction) by claim-ing to displace a critical approach called close reading.\'94 (2)\
\'93Do we actually understand the broad outlines of literary history? I think we understand them well at a generational scale, and haz-ily at the level of a single century. But as we back up farther, the limits of our knowledge become evident: large patterns emerge for which we don\'92t yet have names.\'94 (3)\
\'93Instead of staging normative argu-ments about the right approach to a limited number of familiar topics, we need to explore ways of coordinating di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent scales of analysis\'94 (3)\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 1. The Horizon of Literary Knowledge
\b0 \
\
Close-reading two passages\
\'93Fielding was certainly a teller, and Allen\'92s tactic of expressing human feeling through colors and wind- ru
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57472 
\f0 \cf3 ed hair quali
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 es as an extreme form of showing. So these passages 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 t the alleged historical pattern.But frankly, I chose both passages for that reason. How con
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 -dent are we that the rest of literary history between 
\f2 \cf3 1749
\f0 \cf3  and 
\f2 \cf3 1913
\f0 \cf3  can be organized around a transition from telling to showing?\'94 (7)\
\'93Historians who think highly of modernism, or of Henry James, are more likely to believe in a broad shift from \'93telling\'94 toward \'93showing\'94 than historians who think highly of postmodernism or George Eliot. Scholars do agree about some simple long- term trends: the decline of rhymed poetry, for in-stance. \'85 But in contexts where we need consensus (like a classroom anthology), historical generalizations are typically limited to periods.\'94 (8)\
\'93Nor is this limitation necessarily perceived as a problem. Since our disciplinary institutions are also built around periods, literary scholars specializing in di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent centuries are rarely forced to reach agreement about long- term patterns. Disagreements be-tween historical 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 elds often present themselves as normal, even inevitable temperamental di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erences between people who have chosen to study di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent things. So we let the argument drop and move on to something else. It\'92s not obvious that these debates could ever be resolved simply by discussing a larger number of books.\'94 (8)\
\

\b 2. Measurement
\b0 \
\
\'93references to color are about three times more common, on average, in early- twentieth- century 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction than they had been in the eighteenth century.\'94 (9)\
\'94A second obvious form of skepticism involves questions about the particular sample of works discussed in 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 gure 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57369 
\f0 \cf3 .
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57369 
\f0 \cf3 . Questions of this kind can be important. In fact, as we\'92ll see in chapter 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57372 
\f0 \cf3 , a great deal can be learned by paying attention to the subtle di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erences between literary texts sampled in di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent ways\'97 drawn from reviews in prestigious journals, say, or from the ob-scure reaches of an academic library. But it is also important to grasp that 
\b the subtle di
\f2\b0 \cf3 ff
\f0\b \cf3 erences between samples rarely make a century- spanning trend disappear
\b0 .\'94 (10)\
\
\'93Here, the prominence of Franco Moretti\'92s speculative rationale for distant reading may have created misleading expectations. 
\b Moretti hypothesized that the \'93slaughterhouse\'94 of forgot-ten works might contain a history very di
\f2\b0 \cf3 ff
\f0\b \cf3 erent from the one preserved in academic canons.
\b0  Some readers naturally replied that canonical works \'93for better or worse
\f2 \cf3 \'85
\f0 \cf3  have achieved a position of cultural centrality\'94 and ought to have more weight in our histories. Because the topic of canonicity is charged with passion left over from twentieth- century cultural warfare, this debate caught 
\f2 \cf3 fi
\f0 \cf3 re before either side had carefully weighed the di
\f2 \cf3 ff
\f0 \cf3 erence it made. Across long timelines, it turns out not to make much. On many axes of measurement, prominent and obscure writers are traveling together in the same direction, albeit at slightly (and interestingly) di
\f2 \cf3 ff
\f0 \cf3 erent speeds. 
\f2 \cf3 Th
\f0\b \cf3 e trends we per-ceive in the slaughterhouse are usually also visible in the canon
\b0 . While it is worth exploring the di
\f2 \cf3 ff
\f0 \cf3 erences between samples, 
\b we don\'92t have to reach consensus on a correctly balanced list of works before beginning to map long- term trends
\b0 . (And that is of course fortunate, since there may be no single correctly balanced list.)\'94 (11)\
\
\'93Correlation doesn\'92t prove causation, as we have all learned to say, but the tests that do prove causation (like controlled experiments) are hard to apply to the historical record. Moreover, our understanding of history is of-ten so sketchy that things far short of a causal explanation can improve it substantially.\'94 (12)\
\
Inscreasing physical descriptions, possibly as a metric of showing v telling\
\'93One can see that the trend they traced in the nineteenth century continues straight through the twenti-eth. On the other hand, it doesn\'92t extrapolate inde
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nitely into the past; as we move back into the early eighteenth century, the trend reverses and diction starts to become more concrete. Most interesting of all, this was not a broad transformation of the En-glish language a
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 ecting all genres to the same degree. Instead, emphasis on physical description creates a gap between 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction and non
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction\'97 a di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erence that has steadily increased over the course of the last two centuries.\'94 (14)\
\'93If I had said, \'93Frances Allen\'92s insistence on physical description dramatizes a transformation of 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction that continued steadily from 
\f2 \cf3 1780
\f0 \cf3  to 
\f2 \cf3 2000
\f0 \cf3  and places her well ahead of the curve for 
\f2 \cf3 1923
\f0 \cf3 ,\'94 readers would rightly have laughed at my arbitrary assertion. 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 at isn\'92t necessarily a coun-terintuitive story: it may, in retrospect, be a plausible one. But the fact that something is retrospectively plausible doesn\'92t mean we already knew it.\'94 (14)\
\'93Even more puzzling: Why should urbanization have exerted such radically di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent e
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 ects on 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ctional and non
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ctional narratives from 
\f2 \cf3 1780
\f0 \cf3  forward? We might reply that novelists had to describe the experienced texture of life, while biographers could continue to rely on broad sum-mary. 
\b But the novel\'92s growing insistence on experienced detail is the phenomenon we\'92re trying to explain. We can\'92t take it for granted in our explanation
\b0 .\'94 (15)\
\
\'93it becomes di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57485 
\f0 \cf3 cult to get interpre-tive leverage on a trend de
\f2 \cf3 fi
\f0 \cf3 ned purely through lists of words.\'94 (15)\
\'93I\'92m not suggesting that the lists of words in the General In-quirer are somehow better than those developed at Stanford. My point is rather that all semantic categories are imperfect, and no list of categories (however 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 \cf3 exible) will provide a secure foun-dation for literary- historical inquiry. We can list the names of colors, and perhaps action verbs, but there will always be concepts like \'93temporal immediacy\'94 that escape our preconceived catego-ries. 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 at isn\'92t to say that semantic categories must be entirely abandoned. In fact, I will circle back to the General Inquirer later in this chapter and use it casually to abbreviate description of a few patterns. But the word casually, in that last sentence, ex-presses a deliberate restraint. I have been careful throughout this book not to put much evidentiary weight on lists of words. 
\b While 
\f1\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0\b \cf3 xed semantic categories may be useful as loose abbreviations, we cannot trust them to describe cultural phenomena precisely. For trustworthy description, we need some kind of evidence more deeply rooted in historical context.
\b0 \'94 (16)\
\

\b 3. Modeling\
\

\b0 \'93scholars often 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nd themselves similarly squinting at networks of characters or authors, wondering what the shape of the network implies. 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e fundamental source of this problem is that 
\b research-ers have begun by tracing phenomena that don\'92t yet have literary // signi
\f1\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0\b \cf3 cance for a community of readers
\b0 . Although I know what colors are, for instance, I don\'92t really know what the frequent oc-currence of color terms in a novel would tell me about the story. \'93
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e chromatic novel\'94 is not a genre anyone recognizes. An un-familiar starting point can be fruitful, in the sense that it reveals large patterns scholars don\'92t yet understand. But it doesn\'92t help us interpret the patterns we discover. Revealing a new trend without connecting it to existing scholarly debate invites the question, \'93So what?\'94 Researchers with a more quantitative background might characterize the problem as \'93data dredging\'94: in sorting through a vast heap of evidence for something interesting, we run a risk of cherry- picking.\
Both problems can be addressed in the same way: we need to reverse the sequence of steps in our inquiry. Instead of measuring things, 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nding patterns, and then 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nally asking what they mean, 
\b we need to start with an interpretive hypothesis (a \'93meaning\'94 to investigate) and invent a way to test it
\b0 .\'94 (Underwood 16-17)\
\
\'93But if the divergence of genres in 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 gure 
\f2 \cf3 1
\f0 \cf3 .
\f2 \cf3 2
\f0 \cf3  is puzzling and seems at odds with some existing accounts of literary history, why not take it as a hypothesis to test? 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 at approach has the enormous advantage of beginning from a familiar starting point. Fiction and biography are not crisp, stable, or objective concepts; they are much less stable, in fact, than our concept of color. But unlike the \'93chromatic novel,\'94 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction and biography are concepts that have long circulated through interpretive communities. 
\b To tell a meaningful story about the human past, we don\'92t need stable objectivity. We need the foundation provided by recogniz-able social points of reference.
\b0 \'94 (Underwood 18)\
\'94In e
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 ect, we are reversing the process that created 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 gure 
\f2 \cf3 1
\f0 \cf3 .
\f2 \cf3 2
\f0 \cf3 : instead of starting with a list of signi
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 cant words and asking how two genres fare against that standard, we are starting from the genres, looking for textual di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erences that distinguish them, and then evaluating the strength of the di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erences.\'94 (Underwood 19)\
\
\'93
\b Since we want to distinguish 
\f2\b0 \cf3 fi
\f0\b \cf3 ction from non
\f2\b0 \cf3 fi
\f0\b \cf3 ction using only evidence contained in the text, this task will probably need to be delegated to an algorithm. Human readers would 
\f2\b0 \cf3 fi
\f0\b \cf3 nd it hard to forget their previous knowledge that Samuel Johnson had a real existence and Robinson Crusoe only a feigned one.
\b0 \'94 (Underwood 19)\
\'93Up to this point in the chapter, computers have been dispensable conveniences. With a few days of hard work, we could have counted words by hand. But now we need some-thing more complex\'94 (19)\
\
Trying to assess \'93the probability that librarians will label a given volume \'93
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction.\'94\'94 (19)\
\'93the imprecision of the human world is part of the reason why numbers are so useful in social science: they allow researchers to 
\b describe continua instead of sorting everything into discrete categories
\b0 . Our model of genre will similarly be continuous. We will have to train it on a sample of volumes that librarians have sorted into two discrete groups (
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction and biography) because the human beings who wander through libraries tend to prefer a space organized by clear bound-aries. But the model itself doesn\'92t have to be discrete; it predicts the probability that a volume will be perceived as 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction.\'94 (Underwood 20)\
\
\'93What linguistic features should the model use as clues? 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e choice is not actually crucial. \'85  a 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 \cf3 exible strategy, which has worked well for many similar questions, is simply to treat each dictionary entry (and type of punctuation) as a variable.\'94 (Underwood 20)\
This is where he explains TF/IDF\
\'93Readers unfamiliar with this method are often disconcerted by the seeming na\'efvet\'e9 of representing literary works simply through word frequency. 
\b It would be easy to add complexity to soothe skeptics
\b0 . Ad hoc syntactic variables might make the model seem more likely to capture the loosely de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ned concept we gesture at with the word style. But candidly, this would be no more than a magician\'92s pu
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3  of smoke, which impresses viewers by distracting them from the actual mechanics of the trick. In reality, models based on word frequency predict human read-ers\'92 judgments as well as more complex strategies. 
\f2 \cf3 Th
\f0\b \cf3 is doesn\'92t mean that the di
\f2\b0 \cf3 ff
\f0\b \cf3 erences between texts are, at bottom, all di
\f2\b0 \cf3 ff
\f0\b \cf3 er-ences of diction
\b0 . 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e fundamental di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erence between biography and 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction probably has something to do with our concept of reality (hard as that may be to de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ne). But a learning algorithm doesn\'92t attempt to de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ne the fundamental di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erence between two genres; it aims simply to distinguish examples. And 
\b in practice, the thematic and formal di
\f2\b0 \cf3 ff
\f0\b \cf3 erences between genres do leave legible traces at the level of word choice
\b0 . Deferring de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nition is a philosophically interesting aspect of machine learning, discussed at more length in appendix B. For now, su
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57485 
\f0 \cf3 ce it to say that lit-erary historians may appreciate the 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 \cf3 exibility of this approach, since literary genres rarely have clear and stable de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nitions.\'94 (Underwood 21)\
\
He uses logical regression, lightly \'93modernized\'94 with regularization to avoid overfitting (22)\
\
\'93A statistical model\'92s inference about probability is admittedly an odd thing to discuss. It is much less tangible than \'93the fre-quency of color terms,\'94 where we began. In fact, I feel con
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 dent that this book will be criticized for talking about models: many readers would 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nd distant reading more accessible if it con
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ned itself to linguistic measurements like sentence length or word fre-quency.
\b  Instead of directly measuring the text, predictive models describe a relationship between social and textual evidence.
\b0  
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 is inevitably requires some mental gymnastics, but in the long run I think this relational approach grounds interpretation more per-suasively in human history. Figure 
\f2 \cf3 1
\f0 \cf3 .
\f2 \cf3 1
\f0 \cf3 , measuring the frequency of color terms, was simple and vivid\'97 but it was hard to say exactly what it meant. By contrast, 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 gures 
\f2 \cf3 1
\f0 \cf3 .
\f2 \cf3 3
\f0 \cf3  and 
\f2 \cf3 1
\f0 \cf3 .
\f2 \cf3 4
\f0 \cf3  have clear histori-cal signi
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 cance, because we started by looking for a di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erence between two genres that human readers already recognize. More-over, this strategy will provide an important kind of perspectival 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 \cf3 exibility in later chapters. 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 is chapter has taken the di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erence between 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction and biography as a constant. 
\b (I have trusted li-brarians to de
\f1\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0\b \cf3 ne the genres.)
\b0  But if we chose, we could train dif-ferent models to capture di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent readers\'92 understanding of this generic boundary. When we discuss boundaries even slipperier than 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction/non
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction, that 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 \cf3 exibility will become indispensable.\'94 (Underwood 24)\
\
Findings: \'93 the models tend to become more con
\f2 \cf3 fi
\f0 \cf3 dent in their judgment as time passes. Early volumes are often fairly ambiguous, hovering close to the central dividing line. (Tom Jones, in fact, is exactly on the line.) But twentieth- century books tend to be more clearly marked as either 
\f2 \cf3 fi
\f0 \cf3 ction or biography\'94 (Underwood 24)\

\b \'93
\f2\b0 \cf3 Th
\f0\b \cf3 e words that matter in 
\f2\b0 \cf3 fi
\f0\b \cf3 gures 
\f2\b0 \cf3 1
\f0\b \cf3 .
\f2\b0 \cf3 3
\f0\b \cf3  and 
\f2\b0 \cf3 1
\f0\b \cf3 .
\f2\b0 \cf3 4
\f0\b \cf3  are, simply, whatever words worked best to distinguish 
\f2\b0 \cf3 fi
\f0\b \cf3 ction from biography in a given period
\b0 ; they were chosen by a regression algorithm that was struggling to separate these two groups of texts.\'94 (24)\
The words that turned out to matter were the concrete ones.\
\'93To put this another way: 
\b the direction 
\f2\b0 \cf3 fi
\f0\b \cf3 ction moved from 
\f2\b0 \cf3 1750
\f0\b \cf3  to 
\f2\b0 \cf3 1950
\f0\b \cf3  can be concisely described as \'93away from biography.\'94 
\b0 It begins to look like 
\b the novel steadily specialized in something that biography (and other forms of non
\f2\b0 \cf3 fi
\f0\b \cf3 ction) could rarely provide
\b0 : descriptions of bodies, physical actions, and immediate sensory perceptions in a precisely speci
\f2 \cf3 fi
\f0 \cf3 ed place and time.\'94 (26)\
\
\'93I have been describing trends, not motives or market forces. So I can\'92t prove that novelists moved toward sensory and tempo-ral immediacy because it was a niche not yet 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 lled by non
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction. When I say that 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction and non
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction \'93di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erentiated\'94 from each // other, I am loosely guided by \'c9mile Durkheim\'92s theory that so-cial institutions tend to subdivide and specialize. But his theory doesn\'92t provide a detailed account of causes or motives. 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e mo-tives of writers and readers, across three centuries, will no doubt be varied and tangled\'94 (28-9)\cf4 \
\

\b 4. Coordinating Di
\f1\b0 \uc0\u57363 
\f0\b erent Scales of Analysis\
\

\b0 \'93I began by posing a question about our percep-tion that the literary past had been broadly mapped, exactly to make that illusion of comprehension disappear. Leaving loose ends was always the point of the exercise. \'85 
\f2 Th
\f0 is chapter may not answer every question it raised, but it ought to try to bring back some of the comprehension that vanished as we zoomed out to an unfamiliar scale. In shifting from simple measurement to models of genre, I was already struggling to re-store comprehension, by reattaching large, cloudy lexical trends to recognizable literary reference points. Another way to bring back comprehension is to acknowledge that, in a sense, we did already understand every individual segment of the trend we are discussing.\'94 (30)\
\'93scholars already have some explanation for every part of the widening gap between 
\f2 fi
\f0 ction and biography. It would be odd if they didn\'92t. 
\f2 th
\f0 ousands of human beings have spent a great deal of time studying literary history, and we understand that history, locally, very well. But local understanding doesn\'92t necessarily tell us how all the pieces 
\f2 fi
\f0 t together to form a big picture.\'94 (31)\
\
\'93
\f2 Th
\f0 e juxtaposition of local knowledge with global ignorance / can be irritating, and our minds move rapidly to erase any dissonance between the two. 
\b When large patterns 
\f2\b0 fi
\f0\b nally emerge, they are necessarily compatible with pieces of the puzzle we have already seen at close range.
\b0  So an observer inevitably feels \'93I recog-nize that! I knew Tom Jones was akin to biography!\'94 From there, it is a short step to the conclusion that the global pattern was also lurking at the back of my mind or was nothing more than I expected all along. But this is often self- deception. 
\b Psychologists call it \'93hindsight bias.\'94
\b0  I started by contrasting Henry Fielding to Frances Allen partly in order to remind readers how literary scholars have usually framed arguments about long timelines in the past. Typically, these arguments have been vague, controversial assertions: for instance, fans of modernism will advance a thesis about a shift from telling to showing, which immediately annoys fans of the Victorian novel. 
\f2 Th
\f0\b e challenge is to 
\f2\b0 fi
\f0\b nd a perspective that makes the descriptions preferred by eighteenth- , nineteenth- , and twentieth- century scholars all congruent with each other.
\b0 \'94 (31-32)\
\

\f2 \'93Th
\f0 e temptation to see macroscopic discoveries as less than genuinely new is particularly strong for literary scholars because we are trained to 
\f2 fi
\f0 nd disciplinary signi
\f2 fi
\f0 cance only in claims that dire
\b ctly reverse existing expectations. When we are writing about individual books, this is a reasonable goal. 
\b0 A single book is easy to summarize. So if I plan to write about a novel you al-ready read, I need to directly reverse some of your expectations in order to tell you anything new. 
\b But when we are surveying three centuries of literary history, descriptive summary is barely possible. Privileging counterintuitive claims here would be as absurd as privileging counterintuitive arguments about climate change.
\b0  The truth is that we barely have intuitions about patterns on this scale; our expectations are not clearly formed yet, and it would be just as important to con
\f2 fi
\f0 rm them as to confute them.\'94 (32)\
\
We usually string together literary history by framing each thing as rejecting the previous. \'93
\b Scholars know this narrative of con
\f2\b0 fl
\f0\b ict and displacement is a rhetorical crutch
\b0 , and we frequently apologize for it when sharing a drink with colleagues who work on earlier periods. 
\b But we also keep making the gesture because we don\'92t have many better ways to link a long series of roughly generation-sized studies
\b0  and turn them into a connected narrative.\'94 (33)\
\
\'93Quantitative methods give scholars a di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent way of connect-ing the dots\'97 one that makes it easier to reveal gradual change across a long timeline. But this large picture doesn\'92t necessarily erase more familiar stories about generational struggle and dia-lectical reversal. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 ose con
\f1 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 icts merely occupy a di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent scale of description. Literary history can be a series of 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 erce battles between di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent aesthetic standards and also a single smooth current carrying the novel steadily away from the language, sub-ject matter, and formal strategies of non
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction narrative. If we approach to examine that historical current more closely, the things that looked like eddies will turn out to be struggles be-tween aesthetic movements.
\f1 \uc0\u57346 \u57471 
\f0  Approaching even closer, we may see individual authors 
\f1 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 oating on the surface\'97 for instance, here is one who lost her hearing and worked as a photographer. And here are two young people, facing each other in a small boat, sur-rounded by sun- 
\f1 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 ecked water. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e wind has caught her hair and the ends of her black four- in- hand tie.\'94 (33)}