{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Ch 1: This chapter focuses on the writing of the 1790s and illustrates the role that poetry played in the effort to mobilize Great Britain against France and to resist that mobilisation. If poetry was linked to other cultural forms in this struggle over the war in the decade that followed the French Revolution, it was also a form for which special claims were made, often presented in gendered terms. Poetry's links with \'91fancy,\'92 \'91imagination,\'92 and \'91feeling\'92 were seen to make it crucial for representing the war and poets constantly called on these faculties as vital to their own representational strategies and to their readers' ability to respond to their visions of conflict. While poetry's feminised powers were frequently invoked, the wartime reconceptions and reformulations of poetry were often presented as a need for poetry to become more manly, a major factor in the remasculinisation of poetry in the romantic period.\
Ch 2: This chapter discusses the poetic imaginings of war in the 1790s, particularly those of Charlotte Smith and Samuel Taylor Coleridge. Smith's reconception of the role of \'91fancy\'92 in her blank-verse poem The Emigrants, begun during peacetime but completed in April 1793, forcefully illustrates the way in which the outbreak of war led one of the most popular and influential writers of the closing decades of the 18th century to transform her ideas of the imagination and to reconceive her poetic role. In Fears in Solitude, Coleridge addresses a nation distant from the scene of conflict and ultimately offers his own imagining as a model for the nation. The imagining of war, then, plays a major role in the development of the romantic imagination.\
Ch 3: This chapter discusses the war and poetic identity in the writings of Robert Southey and Wordsworth. In Southey's blank-verse poem, \'91History,\'92 he asks himself the repeated question \'91Was it for this\'85?\'92 This familiar narrative of an overwhelming sense of personal and political crisis producing a turn away from \'91History,\'92 often figured as here as a retreat to a bower, has been a major feature of accounts of canonical romanticism, and still holds considerable sway. Like Wordsworth's The Prelude, also begun in 1798 with the repeated question \'91Was it for this\'85?\'92, \'91History\'92 is a poem of poetic dedication at a time of historical crisis, but while history emerges only at the end of the two-book Prelude, in Southey's poem it is \'91History\'92 itself which offers the solution to the crisis.\
Ch 4: This chapter discusses poetry, war, and gender in Wordsworth's political sonnets. Wordsworth's political sonnets of 1802-1803 were part of the huge outpouring of verse produced to unite, inspire, and animate the nation during the invasion scares if 1797-1798 and 1802-1805, the period that has been named \'91the Great Terror.\'92 This vast body of verse played an important role in the wartime forging of the British nation, both mediating the war to the British public and providing a means of patriotic expression. If poetry shaped understandings of the war in these years, the war in turn shaped poetry, limiting the kinds of writing that could be produced in such an atmosphere of national crisis. The chapter also details one example of poetic construction of the manly nation and its links to the remasculinisation of poetry, Wordworth's political sonnets.\
Ch 5: This chapter discusses Walter Scott's picturesque romance of war. Scott was the bestselling and most popular poet of the Napoleonic wars and his metrical romances played a crucial role in mediating conflict to a nation at war. His phenomenally successful tales of \'91Border chivalry\'92 transformed the imagining of war, presenting it as heroic, shaped by the codes of romance, and framed by the conventions of the picturesque. Scott's poetry were about 16th-century wars but became popular during the Napoleonic wars. With his verse, the 18th-century emphasis on war's horrors gives way to the 19th-century stress on its glory. In addressing his readers as \'91Warriors\'92 in his last extended verse romance in 1814, Scott completed his remasculinisation of the reader and of poetry more generally contributing to the wartime revalidation of poetry as a manly pursuit for both writer and reader.\
Ch 6: This chapter discusses the relationship of poetry and the Peninsular War. Robert Southey showed the extent to which the unfolding events in Spain has already been imagined, and written, as romance. Southey was not alone in responding to the war in the Peninsula as already shaped by the representations of \'91poets and romancers.\'92 The combination of geography and genre in the imaginative shaping of the latest stage of the war was compounded by the fashion for romance produced by the popularity of Walter Scott's poetry which coalesced with the sense of Spain as a land of romance to provide the major poetic framework for the British understanding of the war. The author also examines the poetic use of romance to shape and give meaning to the war, looking at the representational challenges this presented and at the poetic questioning and subversion of this generically inflected understanding of the conflict.\
Ch 7: This chapter examines the works of Lord Byron and Felicia Hemans, whose obsession with war developed out of their engagement with the Peninsular War and whose poetic identities were profoundly shaped by their continued reflection on conflict. The chapter also focuses on one way in which these two writers represented war, the siege. They found in the siege a means of representing to their readership the entirety of modern war. The siege illustrates war's effects on the whole of society and it conflates within one site \'97 the fortress, the citadel, or the walled city \'97 the two spaces poetry frequently strives to link, the scene of conflict and the home. Both writers use the siege to explore the relations between war, gender, and history, exploiting the figure siege's rich allegorical and symbolic potential and ultimately find in it a figure for their own poetic identity.\
\
\
Overall: This opening chapter, which will focus primarily on the writing of the 1790s, will begin by illustrating the role that poetry played in the effort to mobilize the country against France, and to resist that mobilization, But if poetry was linked to other cultural forms including song, theatre, and the visual arts in this struggle over the war in the decade that followed the French Revolution, it was also a form for which special claims were made, an area which will be examined in the second section of this chapter, poetry\'92s links with \'91fancy\'92, \'91imagination\'92, and \'91feeling\'92 were seen to make it crucial for representing the war and poets constantly called on these faculties as vital to their own representational strategies and to their readers\'92 ability to respond to their visions of conflict. As 1 will argue in the third section, the special claims made for poetry were often presented in gendered terms, While poetry\'92s feminized powers (and powers to feminize) were frequently invoked, the wartime reconceptions and refer, nidations of poetry were often presented as a need for poetry to become more manly, a major factor in the remasculinization of poetry in the romantic period. Finally, as an introduction to the major poetic (p.3) transformation in the imagining of war during the conflict, the fourth section will investigate some of the key tropes used to represent the war in the 1790s and the attempts made by several writers to fill the role of national bard prior to Scott.}