{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red204\green102\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\csgray\c20000;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Scheuermann 
\fs24 \cf3  - 
\fs40 \cf2 Hannah More and the English Poor 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 The problem with More is that while she is a most interesting figure, her ideas are largely repugnant to modern sensibilities. Critics often deal with this inconvenience either by apologizing for their subject or by chang- ing what she says so that she seems closer to us in spirit. But although More\'92s position on social issues is not in harmony with ours, it is entirely representative of her own times. Her full welcome into the most influen- tial circles\'97she was a Bluestocking and an intimate of Samuel Johnson and his friends\'97points to this acceptance by her peers. The extraordi- nary sales of her Cheap Repository Tracts attest to the chord she struck in her own society. And when we look at eighteenth-century laws regarding the poor, and contemporary commentary on those Poor Laws, we under- stand just how accurately More reflects the spirit of her time. 
\fs24 \cf3 (237)\cf2 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 More\'92s most recent biographer, Patricia Demers, makes a charmingly earnest effort \'93to deal justly with Hannah More,\'94 although that \'93means admitting both the expansiveness and the limitations of her charity, meth- odology, and vision.\'94
\fs16 \cf2 \up8 1 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \up0 She worries about \'93how to accord justice\'94 to this woman \'93who is\'97and, as some would argue, always was\'97so devastatingly out of step.... More\'92s central belief in a natural hierarchical social order...is now angering in its condescension and immobility\'94 (p. 2). More\'92s work \'93is now widely assumed to have been a narrow exercise of knowing and keep\cf3 - / \cf2 ing one\'92s place\'94 (p. 11); this line is particularly irritating to feminists: \'93Feminist criticism has been understandably and rightly severe about More\'92s dedication to the doctrine of the two spheres and her solemn dis- courses on submission\'94 (p. 21). Gamely, Demers insists that More \'93is alto- gether more complex and conflicted than most detracting comments or piecemeal excerpts indicate\'94 (p. 22). Mitzi Myers, delighted to have found a female eighteenth-century writer who was clearly successful, largely re- writes More so that her \'93didactic\'94 works \'93scarcely stand second to the canonical novel in interest and importance\'94 in terms of \'93what they reveal about women.\'94
\fs16 \cf2 \up8 2 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \up0 More becomes \'93a pioneer social novelist\'94 (p. 267), al- though Myers is talking about short tales. Ignoring entirely the form More used for the tracts, Myers insists that \'93Transcribing her society\'92s exigent problems into fiction, More helped give the novel a new seriousness, rel- evance, and direction\'94 (p. 267). More\'92s tales, designed to teach the poor to be satisfied with their lot in life and those better off how to help the poor without raising them too much, become in Myers\'92 reading 
\fs24 \cf3 (237-8)\cf2 \
fresh literary analogues of urgent social awareness; her thematic message of domestic heroism occasions a new domestic realism, ideas and aesthet- ics are generated from the woman novelist\'92s characteristic stance. In its complex mix of literary and cultural innovation, More\'92s Repository illus- trates how women\'92s educative and caretaking role fed into new strains of social fiction, and her work exemplifies how women could translate female ideology\'92s didactic imperative into an authoritative voice capable of docu- menting and interpreting historical realities. (p. 268) \cf3 (238)\cf2 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 Other recent readers fall somewhere between Myers\'92 and Demers\'92 read- ings; Elizabeth Kowaleski-Wallace, for example, presents a rather strange More who, along with sister Patti, has a morbid response to the physical nature of the poor; much of Kowaleski-Wallace\'92s discussion centers on \'93the \'91grotesque\'92 body\'94 and More\'92s presumed need to tame it, especially in the poor. In other words, Kowaleski-Wallace, like Myers, reshapes a More who fits her own interests. The very title of her book, in fact, sug- gests a biased reading: 
\i Their Fathers\'92 Daughters: Hannah More, Maria Edgeworth, and Patriarchal Complicity.
\i0\fs16 \cf2 \up8 3 
\fs24 \cf3 \up0 (238)\cf2 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 So the More that contemporary critics discuss is troubling and, in Kowaleski-Wallace\'92s case, troubled. What we don\'92t get is much of an eigh- teenth-century More, and before I get to my own discussion of More\'92s work\'97my own discomfort with More\'92s perspectives apparent at many points\'97I want to present a context for her ideas by looking first at some aspects of the eighteenth-century\'92s Poor Laws. 
\f1\fs22 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  
\f0\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(238)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93More\'92s assumptions here are central to her view of the compact between rich and poor. If the rich do choose to help the poor, their aid is strictly a matter of voluntary charity. That \'93kindness\'94 is drawn forth by their own sense of the deserving nature of the individual case.\'94\cf3  
\f0\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(246)\

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93For attributions and dates of pieces in the Repository, see the still irreplaceable article by G. H. Spinney, \'93Cheap Repository Tracts: Hazard and Marshall Edition\'94\'94\cf3  
\f0\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(251)}