{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red0\green0\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 All of the computational work in this dissertation \cf2 aims\cf0  to \cf2 identify\cf0 , in as minute detail as possible, \cf2 all works printed \cf0 in England between January 1 1789 and December 31 1799. This eleven-year \'93decade\'94 was a turbulent one across the Channel, encompassing the whole of the French Revolution, from the Estates General in 1789 to Napoleon\'92s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C93C2C79-219A-4503-86A6-F25284C27F10"}}{\fldrslt coup in 1799.}} In England, these events caused strong and variously nationalist reactions in a country which had so recently lost its colonies in America and feared that a French invasion could come at any moment. This is the decade of 
\i Common Sense
\i0 , it is the decade of 
\i Lyrical Ballads
\i0 ; it is the decade of Hannah More, it is the decade of Ann Radcliffe; it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness; it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity. Charles Dickens\'92 now-famous superlative degree of comparison captures the tension \cf2 often seen by scholars between \'91Enlightenment\'92 modes of writing and \'91Romantic\'92 or \'91Gothic\'92 modes. \cf0 To navigate the 1790s, I turn to four authors whose careers and works usefully focalize my core questions of genre, publics, and the status of literature and writers. These authors are Hannah More, Charlotte Smith, Mary Robinson, and Ann Radcliffe. All four authors were highly productive in the 1790s, and all four had complex and contested literary legacies after the 1790s. \cf3 \cb4 [I've picked these women because they've had long histories of struggling to know what to do with them, based on difficulties with seriousness, popularity, women's writing. How do they look different if we look at them a different way?]\cb1  \cf0 In the following chapters of this dissertation, I will ask whether and how contemporary digital archives make these authors visible. First, however, I provide \cf2 here \cf0 a brief overview of each author\'92s major works, general biography, and critical reception.}