{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 ECCO emerged four years after the beginnings of EEBO, when, in 2003,  Thomson Gale (now Gale Cengage Learning) made digital copies of Eighteenth Century Collection microfilms available to subscribers online. But the largest impact on the landscape of digital book repositories was the announcement of Google Print in 2004. Google partnered with major libraries and publishers to gain access to what they estimated at more than 15 million volumes, and set the goal to scan them {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EFB9A3B0-BD3C-4423-AF49-524534FC8B50"}}{\fldrslt all.}} Eighteenth century works were also included, almost incidentally. In 2005, the TCP began encoding ECCO texts, as a somewhat-experimental alternative to the transcripts already produced by Optical Character Recognition (OCR) technologies. In 2006, the ESTC was made available to search for free online, and began adding more information to its listings, to include full title and imprint {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7AE3B802-9DD5-4CC8-9176-CDB38004E95B"}}{\fldrslt transcripts.}} Meanwhile, Google had scanned almost unthinkable numbers of new books. In 2008, however, they begin to face legal repercussions for their \'93scan first and ask questions later\'94 approach to mass digitization. \'93When Google partnered with university libraries to scan their collections, it had agreed to give them each a copy of the scanning data, and in 2008 the HathiTrust began organizing and sharing those files. (It had to fend off the Authors Guild in court, too.) HathiTrust has 125 member organizations and institutions who \'93believe that we can better steward research and cultural heritage by working together than alone or by leaving it to an organization like Google,\'94 says Mike Furlough, the trust\'92s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CD8DA064-E1B1-40C3-8212-C7A80AF20E76"}}{\fldrslt director.\'94}}}