{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Piper identifies generalization as a common and important method in literary studies, which plays a distinct role in literature compared to history or social science. He provides compelling evidence for \'93an inverse relationship between the scale of claims and scope of evidence provided\'94 (71), in which \'93rhetoric stands in for evidence\'94 and \'93interestingness becomes true (or the truth is only valued because it is interesting)\'94 (16). [This is a different way of describing the same phenomenon that others like Guillory and Sedgwick and Love have identified, in the figure of the critic as the authority in themselves.] Piper turns to some ideas about \'91openness\'92 as the alternative way to reframe our relationship to our field\'97 by this he means an \'93expressive openness\'94 that he sees as central to the methods of literary study. This expressive openness takes three forms: the questioning mind (\'93a rhetorical stance that is at once both critical and open. It doubts but also wonders\'94 (66)), the expanding mind (\'93the valuation of the \'91novel\'92 or \'91unforeseen,\'92 things that have not been thought before\'94 (67)), and the loosening mind (\'93 a capacity to undo associations and make room for novel connections\'94 (67)). The goal of all this openness would be to \'93build confidence in our collective forms of knowledge about the world all the while continuing to imagine alternative versions\'94 (72).\
\
Piper and generalization is related to what I am doing with my random sample evidence because I am openly and perversely choosing insufficient, limited, arbitrary evidence and trying to see what I can make of it anyway.\
In that light it seems like what I am saying might be \'91look\'97 I can achieve a plausible generalization even with bad evidence, suggesting that all work in the field is mere charlatanry!\'92 but I actually want to do something like \'91look\'97 this works, suggesting that we haven\'92t successfully defined what \'91good evidence\'92 is.\'92 The idea of the random sample is that I really do expect \'911790s-ness\'92 to appear in 
\i all
\i0  of 1790s lit; if I decide that the 1790s are \'91about\'92, for example, a gendered renegotiation of capitalism, then that aboutness will appear in anything I pick. But when I say it that way I get back to the circularity/always-already of close reading\'85}