{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 One of the uncomfortable questions posed by computational literary study is a particular kind of scrutiny of methodology: what is it, exactly, that 
\i non
\i0 -computational literary study 
\i does
\i0 ? Especially as universities have sought increasingly transparent instrumental justifications for the continued existence of English departments \'97 we will teach writing! critical thinking! digital literacy! Studying English will create more ethical digital citizens and more valuable employees! \'97 it can seem as if the English department isn\'92t sure what it is for, or how our research is supposed to work. Is it even \'93research\'94 or \'93a method\'94 to read a lot of books, think about them, and then tell each other stories about our thoughts?\
\
Ted Underwood has proposed that the core research output in literary study is, at its core, a narrative. Effective literary criticism has protagonists-- whether these are texts, cultural forces, or critical camps-- which the critic narrates through some kind of conflict, to reach a final meaning that the reader will find moving. For example, Eugenia Zuroski\'92s A Taste for China follows and explains figures like \'93China,\'94 \'93things Chinese,\'94 \'93English identity,\'94 and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C55EB210-EDF7-4751-AD56-DB3AD3817B74"}}{\fldrslt \'93orientalism.\'94}} Some individual characters take on prominent roles in this narrative: [EXAMPLES OF PEOPLE] and, in the fine tradition of eighteenth century \'93it\'94 narratives, [SPECIFIC PIECES OF CHINA]. But the core narrative is really a story about the characters it calls \'93English identity\'94 and \'93orientalism.\'94 [SUMMARIZE BOOK: \'93offers an account of how literature of the long eighteenth century generated a model of English selfhood dependent on figures of China. It shows how various genres of writing in this period call upon \'93things Chinese\'94 to define the tasteful English subject of modernity. Chinoiserie is no mere exotic curiosity in this culture, but a potent, multivalent sign of England\'92s participation in a cosmopolitan world order. By the end of the eighteenth century, not only are English homes filled with it, but so too are English selves.\'94] The many kinds of texts Zuroski consults have become meaningful because they create a narrative.\
Narratives are not, in themselves, the problem: saying that a piece of scholarship constructs a narrative is another way of saying that it organizes information in a way that creates meaning. This is, in fact, desirable. Similarly, when Andrew Piper studies generalization as a defining practice in literary study, generalization itself is not the problem. Piper defines generalization as \'93the rhetorical strategy whereby we move from partial evidence to knowledge claims about some larger group or category\'94 (1). Acquiring knowledge about some broader phenomenon is generally the purpose of acquiring evidence in the first place.\
\
So, as Underwood also points out, narrative construction is not really unique to literary study. Any attempt to describe cause and effect or explain a mechanism will produce a narrative: [EXAMPLES].\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'93an inverse relationship between the scale of claims and scope of evidence provided\'94 (Piper 71)}