{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In this context, Matthew Lewis\'92s
\i  The Captive
\i0  (1803) provides an example of an interesting failure. The previous works discussed all provide a safe ground within which their audiences can practice embracing misery, and have that misery vindicated and comfortably resolved. 
\i \cf0 \cb1 The Captive
\i0 , in contrast, begins from the same expectations, but betrays its audiences into an experience that overwhelms. It uses the systems of sensibility to engage its audience\'92s feelings at the highest pitch, and then destroys the accepted boundaries of that framework. The eponymous heroine is at the peak of sensible distress: imprisoned in physical distress like Dr. Primrose, misbelieved like Elwina, seperated from a beloved like Emily St. Aubert, mistreated by someone who is meant to care for her like Matilda. The audience has more than enough precedents to supply a rich backstory. At first, she employs her mental resources to confirm her superiority to her misery. But her attempt to disavow her circumstances begins to slide into delusion. And then, after a highly metaphorical and aestheticized \'91fading hope\'92 moment watching a dimming light, her performance is interrupted with violence.\
The moment responsible for the majority of the fainting during the performance appears to be, essentially, a jump scare: after attempting to break into the captive\'92s cell, the madman is dragged away, the captive relaxes \'97 and then he suddenly reappears in a different part of the stage. The stage directions for this moment are understated, but the 
\i Monthly Mirror
\i0  identifies this as the moment at which \'93[t]wo ladies fell into {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2FFBED09-34FE-461D-AB60-C36477B579E9"}}{\fldrslt hysterics,}} the house was thrown into confusion.\'94 This sudden fear is not the kind of distress which sensibility can resist. It is the 
\i kind
\i0  of madness that matters here: actresses have going mad on stage since 1660, and ordinarily when they inspire tears and fainting fits, this is seen as a success. In 
\i Percy
\i0 , for example, Elwina\'92s madness and death contain a seed of satisfaction. The captive\'92s madness is not an aesthetic, vindicated madness like Elwina\'92s; it is not borne of inner conflict or her situation; it is a bodily experience which she is too weak to resist. Even the restorative dumb-show ending can\'92t erase the knowledge of that irrational, overwhelming fear. According to Lewis, \'93two or three more of the spectators went into hysterics\'94 after the drama had concluded, \'93when the curtain dropped.\'94 These hardy souls, perhaps, bore the experience as long as they believed that a resolution would be offered them, but found the final dumb-show insufficient to direct and soothe their emotion. And thus the piece as a whole is \'93too horrible for representation\'94: it cannot be aestheticized into an ethical experience, dealing as it does with distress which virtue cannot resist.}