{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Out-of-print books, almost by definition, were commercial dead weight. If Google, through mass digitization, could make a new market for them, that would be a real victory for authors and publishers. \'93We realized there was an opportunity to do something extraordinary for readers and academics in this country,\'94 Richard Sarnoff, who was then Chairman of the American Association of Publishers, said at the time. \'93We realized that we could light up the out-of-print backlist of this industry for two things: discovery and consumption.\'94 But once you had that goal in mind, the lawsuit itself\'97which was about whether Google could keep scanning and displaying snippets\'97began to seem small time. Suppose the Authors Guild won: they were unlikely to recoup anything more than the statutory minimum in damages; and what good would it do to stop Google from providing snippets of old books? If anything those snippets might drive demand. And suppose Google won: Authors and publishers would get nothing, and all readers would get for out-of-print books would be snippets\'97not access to full texts. The plaintiffs, in other words, had gotten themselves into a pretty unusual situation. They didn\'92t want to lose their own lawsuit\'97but they didn\'92t want to win it either.\'94 (Somers)\
\'94The basic problem with out-of-print books is that it\'92s unclear who owns most of them. An author might have signed a book deal with their publisher 40 years ago; that contract stipulated that the rights revert to the author after the book goes out of print, but required the author to send a notice to that effect, and probably didn\'92t say anything about digital rights; and all this was recorded on some pieces of paper that nobody has.\'94 (Somers)\
\
\'93At the heart of the settlement was a collective licensing regime for out-of-print books. Authors and publishers could opt out their books at any time. For those who didn\'92t, Google would be given wide latitude to display and sell their books, but in return, 63 percent of the revenues would go into escrow with a new entity called the Book Rights Registry. The Registry\'92s job would be to distribute funds to rightsholders as they came forward to claim their works; in ambiguous cases, part of the money would be used to figure out who actually owned the rights.\'94 (Somers)\
\
\'93Book publishing isn\'92t the healthiest industry in the world, and individual authors don\'92t make any money out of out-of-print books,\'94 Cunard said to me. \'93Not that they would have made gazillions of dollars\'94 with Google Books and the Registry, \'93but they would at least have been paid something for it. And most authors actually want their books to be read.\'94 What became known as the Google Books Search Amended Settlement Agreement came to 165 pages and more than a dozen appendices. It took two and a half years to hammer out the details. Sarnoff described the negotiations as \'93four-dimensional chess\'94 between the authors, publishers, libraries, and Google. \'93Everyone involved,\'94 he said to me, \'93and I mean everyone\'97on all sides of this issue\'97thought that if we were going to get this through, this would be the single most important thing they did in their careers.\'94\'94\
\
\'93The objections came in many flavors, but they all started with the sense that the settlement was handing to Google, and Google alone, an awesome power. \'93Did we want the greatest library that would ever exist to be in the hands of one giant corporation, which could really charge almost anything it wanted for access to it?\'94, Robert Darnton, then president of Harvard\'92s library, has said. Darnton had initially been supportive of Google\'92s scanning project, but the settlement made him wary. The scenario he and many others feared was that the same thing that had happened to the academic journal market would happen to the Google Books database.\'94 (Somers)\
\'93Amazon, for its part, worried that the settlement allowed Google to set up a bookstore that no one else could. Anyone else who wanted to sell out-of-print books, they argued, would have to clear rights on a book-by-book basis, which was as good as impossible, whereas the class action agreement gave Google a license to all of the books at once. This objection got the attention of the Justice Department, in particular the Antitrust division, who began investigating the settlement. In a statement filed with the court, the DOJ argued that the settlement would give Google a de facto monopoly on out-of-print books. That\'92s because for Google\'92s competitors to get the same rights to those books, they\'92d basically have to go through the exact same bizarre process: scan them en masse, get sued in a class action, and try to settle. \'85 Google\'92s best defense was that the whole point of antitrust law was to protect consumers\'94 (Somers)\
\'93No one is quite sure why the DOJ decided to take a stand instead of remaining neutral. Dan Clancy, the Google engineering lead on the project who helped design the settlement, thinks that it was a particular brand of objector\'97not Google\'92s competitors but \'93sympathetic entities\'94 you\'92d think would be in favor of it, like library enthusiasts, academic authors, and so on\'97that ultimately flipped the DOJ. \'93I don\'92t know how the settlement would have transpired if those naysayers hadn\'92t been so vocal,\'94 he told me. \'93It\'92s not clear to me that if the libraries and the Bob Darntons and the Pam Samuelsons of the world hadn\'92t been so active that the Justice Department ever would have become involved, because it just would have been Amazon and Microsoft bitching about Google. Which is like yeah, tell me something new.\'94\'94 (Somers)\
\'94The irony is that so many people opposed the settlement in ways that suggested they fundamentally believed in what Google was trying to do. One of Pamela Samuelson\'92s main objections was that Google was going to be able to sell books like hers, whereas she thought they should be made available for free. \'85  In her paper concluding that the settlement went too far, Samuelson herself even wrote, \'93It would be a tragedy not to try to bring this vision to fruition, now that it is so evident that the vision is realizable.\'94\'94 (Somers)\
\
\'93\'93This is not important enough for the Congress to somehow adjust copyright law,\'94 Clancy said. \'93It\'92s not going to get anyone elected. It\'92s not going to create a whole bunch of jobs.\'94 It\'92s no coincidence that a class action against Google turned out to be perhaps the only plausible venue for this kind of reform: Google was the only one with the initiative, and the money, to make it happen. \'93If you want to look at this in a raw way,\'94 Allan Adler, in-house counsel for the publishers, said to me, \'93a deep pocketed, private corporate actor was going to foot the bill for something that everyone wanted to see.\'94 Google poured resources into the project, not just to scan the books but to dig up and digitize old copyright records, to negotiate with authors and publishers, to foot the bill for a Books Rights Registry. Years later, the Copyright Office has gotten nowhere with a proposal that re-treads much the same ground, but whose every component would have to be funded with Congressional appropriations.\'94(Somers)\
\
\'93It was strange to me, the idea that somewhere at Google there is a database containing 25-million books and nobody is allowed to read them. It\'92s like that scene at the end of the first Indiana Jones movie where they put the Ark of the Covenant back on a shelf somewhere, lost in the chaos of a vast warehouse. It\'92s there. The books are there. People have been trying to build a library like this for ages\'97to do so, they\'92ve said, would be to erect one of the great humanitarian artifacts of all time\'97and here we\'92ve done the work to make it real and we were about to give it to the world and now, instead, it\'92s 50 or 60 petabytes on disk, and the only people who can see it are half a dozen engineers on the project who happen to have access because they\'92re the ones responsible for locking it up. I asked someone who used to have that job, what would it take to make the books viewable in full to everybody? I wanted to know how hard it would have been to unlock them. What\'92s standing between us and a digital public library of 25 million volumes? You\'92d get in a lot of trouble, they said, but all you\'92d have to do, more or less, is write a single database query. You\'92d flip some access control bits from off to on. It might take a few minutes for the command to propagate.\'94 (Somers)}