{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Of the data-rich literary history projects discussed in this chapter, Underwood and Sellers\'92s work on changing standards of literary prestigePage 51 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  most consistently enacts the curatorial elements present elsewhere in digital humanities, not least in terms of data publication. As the authors explain in an online working paper on the project, its most time-consuming element was not training their supervised model but constructing their dataset: identifying the different subgenres\'97poetry, prose, fiction, and drama\'97present in HathiTrust (\'93How,\'94 6). As well as publishing the datasets and code used in their article (\'93Code\'94), in collaboration with HathiTrust Underwood takes the major, additional step of releasing the outcome of analysis of that mass-digitized collection for others to use. This takes the form of \'93word counts for 101,948 volumes of fiction, 58,724 volumes of poetry, and 17,709 volumes of drama\'94 published from 1700 to 1922, as well as yearly summaries of word frequencies for each genre. Underwood refers to this dataset as a \'93collection\'94 to differentiate it from a \'93corpus\'94 because \'93I don\'92t necessarily recommend that you use the whole thing, as is. 
\i The whole thing
\i0  may or may not represent the sample you need for your research question\'94 (\'93Dataset\'94 np).\
Signifying growing recognition of the importance of data publication, the Underwood/HathiTrust collection is an important undertaking for data-rich literary history in at least two ways. In presenting a dataset designed for literary history, it offers a shared foundation for research. Working with it, researchers can ask a range of questions based on a reliable, standardized dataset and engage with each other\'92s arguments in terms not only of results produced but of data investigated. In characterizing that collection as the holdings of \'93American university and public libraries, insofar as they were digitized in the year 2012 (when the project began), Underwood also frames a major mass-digitized collection\'97HathiTrust\'97in terms of its history of transmission (\'93Dataset\'94 np). However general this framing, Underwood thus explicitly associates the dataset he publishes with a sequence of production and reception that profoundly affects its capacity to support historical analysis. In their article, Underwood and Sellers acknowledge that this history of transmission shapes their findings, noting that their model \'93makes more accurate\'94 predictions for American poetry collections because HathiTrust \'93mainly aggregates the collections of large American libraries\'94 (\'93Longue\'94 338).\'94 (Bode 50-51)\
\
\'93Seeking to define the scope of their dataset, Underwood and Sellers note that HathiTrust \'93may represent more than half of the titles that were printed\'94 because it contains \'93about 58% of titles recorded in standard bibliographies.\'94 Yet their own \'93work on fiction\'94 with this collection belies the apparently solid basis of this estimate, finding that HathiTrust contains \'93many titles left out of\'94 existing bibliographies (\'93How\'94 n11). Underwood and Sellers thus indicate a significant lack of overlap between established bibliographical records and the holdings of a major digital library, although they do not highlight the significance of this finding nor explore its implications for their own study or for literary history broadly (whether conducted by computational or noncomputational means). Emphasizing that we cannot know the documentary past except through the knowledge infrastructure we create to interpret it, this disjunction that Underwood and Sellers discover highlights the potentially major gaps in all existing forms of description and interpretation: 
\b neither the analog nor the digital record offers an unmediated and comprehensive view of the documentary past; both are partial, and not necessarily in complementary ways.
\b0 \'94 (Bode 53)}