{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Chapter five takes the complex methodologies developed in the preceding three chapters, and stress-tests them on More\'92s difficult publication history. The many Cheap Repository Tracts are difficult to comprehensively identify and attribute authorship to: how have digital resources dealt with these challenges? I am particularly interested in examining publication details which More might have exaggerated for promotional purposes: what grounds can be identified for her claims of exceptional circulation rates?  Examining More\'92s oeuvre also raises questions of literariness: if, as I expect, the Cheap Repository Tracts are excluded from more selective databases, is this appropriate? What kinds of \'93non-literary\'94 writing is included in each database? This question brings my bibliographic research back home to the core questions about canon-building which drive my inquiry. To this point, I have sought ways to evaluate authors\'92 
\i popularity
\i0  and their 
\i importance
\i0  in the print marketplace, as related metrics which underly the authors\'92 reputations. With More, I explore directly the use of 
\i literariness
\i0  as an inherently unquantifiable metric of selection.}