{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red252\green111\blue207;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Privileging one kind of writing, however \'91\'91invisibly,\'92\'92 means demoting others linked closely enough to it to be perceived as viable substitutes.\'94\cf3  (Gamer 7)\
\
\cf2 \'93Rather, then, than echoing Anne Williams\'92s argument that \'91\'91 \'91Gothic\'92 and \'91Romantic\'92 are not two but one\'92\'9230 because of their shared poetics, I wish to focus upon the economic and ideological processes that have insured their lasting separation.\'94\cf3  (Gamer 10)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93\cf4 As Jon Klancher has argued persuasively, reviewers and readers hardly constituted homogeneous, let alone mutually exclusive, groups.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up8 17 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \up0 Yet the relevance of Jauss\'92s 
\i strata 
\i0 does not lie in the accuracy with which they represent actual British readers or reading habits, but rather in the uncanny resemblance those conceptual catego- ries bear to the similarly imprecise ideas that late-eighteenth-century British writers and reviewers held about the makeup of their own readership.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up8 18 
\fs24 \cf3 \up0          
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 This imprecise knowledge of fellow readers has been confirmed in recent scholarly research on literacy and reading habits at the end of the eighteenth century \'96 research that has characterized British culture as experiencing exploding literacy rates accompanied by an increasingly bewildering and diverse collection of reading audiences.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up10 19 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \up0 Few conservative prose writers in the 
\f2 \uc0\u63281 \u63287 \u63289 \u63280 
\f1 s, for example, display an informed awareness of this new diversity of readership beyond making increasingly anxious calls to police the reading of women and adolescents and to contain the circulation of radical texts like 
\i The Rights of Man 
\i0 (
\f2 \uc0\u63281 \u63287 \u63289 \u63282 
\f1 ). 
\fs24 \cf3 (32)\
\
\'93
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 Both Fergus\'92s and Kaufman\'92s findings concerning the readership of fiction suggest statistically about gothic readers what Austen\'92s Henry Tilney here embodies: that men \'91\'91read nearly as many as women,\'92\'92 and that gothic fiction attracted educated and elite readers capable not only of understanding irony but also of treating their own reading experience with it. For Austen, as for Kaufman and Fergus, the actual gothic reader has little in common with the \'91\'91young ladies and . . . luckless reviewers\'92\'92 assumed by the 
\i Monthly 
\i0 and other Reviews to be the only readers of gothic fiction. That Austen raises and explodes this assumption about the gender and level of education of gothic readers 
\i twice 
\i0 in the same passage provides us with some sense of the prevalence of the stereotype and degree of irritation it caused her. Looking to 
\i Northanger
\i0 \'92s famous passage defending novels, furthermore, the perpetuators of such a stereotype are equally clear: \'91\'91Let us leave it to the Reviewers to abuse such effusions of fancy at their leisure, and over every new novel to talk in threadbare strains of the trash with which the press now groans.\'92\'92
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up8 38 
\fs24 \cf3 \up0 		
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 These \'91\'91threadbare strains\'92\'92 of \'91\'91abuse,\'92\'92 and the effects that they had on other writers in the period, require further investigation and theoretical work. In writing prose fiction, Austen has little choice but to defend the novel against reviewers and to supplement their portrait of the naive female gothic reader (Catherine) with an older and more sophisticated counterpart (Henry). For a poet, dramatist, or learned editor, however, such a direct defense of \'96 and association with \'96 popular fiction is both unnecessary and, in the face of the repetitive vitriol and cliche\uc0\u32 \u769 s of eighteenth-century reviewing, undesirable. By the end of the eighteenth century, in fact, gothic reviewer\'96writer discourses have become so hyperbolic and so mechanistically 
\i conventional 
\i0 as to force us to re-examine their cultural function. Gothic writers and reviewers may ostentatiously speak to one another, but the utter sameness of their mutual addresses spurs us to ask for whom these authorial prefaces and critical reviews are intended, and where, if anywhere, communication exists in these discourses. Put another way, in discourses so predictable in their rhetoric and modes of address, why do gothic writers and reviewers write with so much energy?\cf3 \'94 (40)\
\
\'93\cf4 I wish to argue, however, that the ritualistic abuse of gothic writers by gothic reviewers involves more explicit acts of intimidation as well. 
\b Gothic reviewers most often attack individual gothic works, and gothic as a genre, not to remonstrate with gothic writers to write in other genres, but rather to make clear to other readers \'96 and especially to other writers \'96 the cultural costs of reading and writing gothic texts.
\b0  However indirectly stated, this communication constitutes a palpable threat, and if gothic reviewers perform a specific kind of cultural work, it is to define and reiterate the risks of reading and writing gothic to those members of the British readership contemplating it. Looking back to the above-quoted review of 
\i The Castles of Athlin and Dunbayne
\i0 , for example, gothic readers risk associating themselves with the \'91\'91unformed mind[s]\'92\'92 of adolescents, with the \'91\'91stupidity\'92\'92 of female \'91\'91nonsense,\'92\'92 and with the vitiated tastes of readers for whom \'91\'91wonders, and wonders only, can charm.\'92\'92 More seriously, gothic writers risk losing their cultural legitimacy, social respectability, and standing as serious authors. I read gothic\'92s critical reception, therefore, as a regulatory discourse \'96 carried out under the fiction of paternalistic advice to a given gothic writer, but functioning as an implicit threat to other readers and writers potentially attracted to the gothic.\cf3 \'94 (42)\
\
\'93\cf4 At the end of the eighteenth century, gothic emerges next to, and comes to play a special role within, these larger debates about the utility and risks of reading in the absence of formal education and training. With Ian Duncan, Robert Miles, and Edward Jacobs, then, I read the emergence of gothic fiction between 
\f3 \cf3 1760
\f1 \cf4  and 
\f3 \cf3 1790
\f1 \cf4  as a response 
\i to 
\i0 the novel and as an attempt to align romance with the dignity of history and with the poetics of the medieval metrical romance and Shakespearean tragedy. \cf3 \'94(57)\cf5 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93romance\'92s reception provided a language for reviewers to criticize gothic\'92s other perceived transgressions against existing literary and social codes: among them the need to keep genres \'91\'91pure,\'92\'92 disciplinary boundaries distinct, and \'91\'91better books\'92\'92 in appropriate hands\'94\cf5  (51)}