{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 Chapter four uses Ann Radcliffe as an important contrast to Charlotte Smith and especially to Mary Robinson, to challenge the ease with which the number of unique titles can stand in for both \'93popularity\'94 and \'93importance.\'94 Taking as my premise that Radcliffe was unquestionably both popular and important in the 1790s, I examine the extent to which she does (or does not) rise to attention within my corpora of that decade. I explore both print runs and reviews as important supplementary forms of information, and prototype and test computational methods to integrate these kinds of information with more accessible metadata. Print runs are of particular importance to interpreting Radcliffe\'92s career, since a large run of one edition can represent far more actual books produced than several small editions, and Radcliffe\'92s celebrity often meant large print runs. To compare her output to Smith\'92s and Robinson\'92s, I test and compare a few methods of calculating the total number of books printed for each author during the decade. To compare her reception to theirs, I hope to use a prototype version of Megan Peiser\'92s in-progress Novels Reviewed Database. In both cases, my method will begin with manually researching the three authors\'92 major works, and then exploring scalable computational methods. The chapter closes, again, with a reflection on Radcliffe as an author.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}