{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The novel assures us that we have \'93every reason to suppose that their wedded life, was\'97a life of happiness.\'94 If this is so, it is not because Matilda and Rushworth act fundamentally different from their predecessors, but because they both, and especially Matilda, now have such lowered expectations that, in accordance with 
\i Wakefield
\i0 \'92s doctrine that pleasure is increased by the contrast with suffering, the same outcome constitutes a greater satisfaction. Unlike Miss Milner, Matilda is \'93\cf2 \cb3 [e]ducated in the school of adversity,\'94 which means that \'93inured to retirement from her infancy, she had acquired a taste for all those amusements which a recluse life affords.\'94 \cf0 \cb1 Imprisoned in her own familial home, Matilda, unlike Miss Milner, learns \'93to suffer like a heroine,\'94 as 
\i Udolpho
\i0  will define the task a few years later. Emily St. Aubert\'92s education in 
\i Udolpho
\i0  shares with 
\i A Simple Story
\i0  a conviction that unregulated feeling is dangerous. In tension with this mistrust of feeling, however, is the tightrope Emily walks in her carefully-measured submission to her circumstances. Early in her imprisonent in the castle of Udolpho, Emily exhorts her aunt to end her suffering by giving in to Montoni\'92s demands. Her aunt resists, and dies as Emily predicts; when Emily herself is offered the same choice, she signs the papers given to her by Montoni, in exchange for her freedom to live in what the narrative deems poverty in France. Montoni, however, has no incentive to uphold his promise, and Emily no power to resist him. Appeasement\'97 the action Dr. Primrose refused to even consider, when faced with his own unpalatable paperwork in prison\'97 is proven to be useless. From this point, Emily proceeds from the assumption that she cannot take effective action against Montoni, and cultivates alternate strategies of patience and aesthetic retreat. A gothic education in the school of adveristy, then, prepares Matilda to be emotionally self-sufficient with astonishingly little care shown toward her from her guardians, to submit calmly, and not to expect improvement in her circumstances.}