{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red102\green102\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;
\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;
\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Although influenced by both Moretti\'92s and Jockers\'92s work, this book begins rather differently: with a critique of their approach. Chapter 1, \'93Abstraction, Singularity, Textuality: The Equivalence of \'91Close\'92 and \'91Distant\'92 Reading,\'94 argues that 
\b \cf2 distant reading and macroanalysis offer an inadequate foundation for data-rich literary history because they neglect the activities and insights of textual scholarship
\b0 \cf2 : the bibliographical and editorial practices that literary scholars have long relied on to interpret and represent the historical record. Textual scholars understand literary works as events\'97unfolding and accruing meaning across time and space\'97and the documentary record as partially and provisionally expressing that process. By contrast, distant reading and macroanalysis conceive data and mass-digitized collections as providing direct and unmediated access to the historical literary record and reduce literary works to texts, perceiving them as singular and stable entities, related to each other in history via basic categories of production. The models of literary systems that Moretti and Jockers construct on this basis are limited, abstract, and often ahistorical.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Such inattention to the historical and material nature of the documentary record is inherited from, not in opposition to, the New Criticism and its core method of close reading.
\b0 \cf2  Close readings are generally protected from the worst consequences of such underlying assumptions by the disciplinary infrastructure that textual scholars have produced, and by the documentary context in which such readings are enacted. The same cannot be said of distant reading and macroanalysis, which take the problematic assumptions of close reading to an extreme conclusion. The problem with these prominent approaches is not that they introduce new quantitative methods, inimical to nuanced literary-historical understanding, as has been argued. Rather, distant reading and macroanalysis construct and seek to extract meaning from models of literary systems that are essentially deficient: inadequate for representing the ways in which literary works existed and generated meaning in the past. The solution to this problem is not rejecting data-rich literary history, nor proposing new, more elaborate forms of computationalPage 6 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 \cf2  analysis; it is not even integrating computational and noncomputational methods, as is often proposed. 
\b \cf2 These solutions define the issue in terms of the method of analysis used, when the foundational problem is the lack of an adequate object to analyze
\b0 \cf2 : one that is capable of managing the documentary record\'92s complexity, especially as it is manifested in emerging digital knowledge infrastructure, and of representing literary works in the historical contexts in which they were produced and received.\'94 (5-6)\cf3 \
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \'93Underappreciated in commentary on distant reading and macroanalysis is the shifting meanings of both terms. When Moretti originally proposed distant reading in \'93Conjectures on World Literature\'94 in 2000, 
\b \cf4 it was a \'93new critical method\'94 for world literary studies, not for literary history
\b0 \cf4  (55). 
\b \cf4 Distant reading aimed to overcome the focus on national canons
\b0 \cf4  by collating the work of multiple scholars to identify and explore \'93units that are much smaller or much larger than the text: devices, themes, tropes\'97or genres and systems\'94 (57).\'94 (Bode 19)\
\'93 Although literary data remains central, 
\b \cf4 the primary object of distant reading is now less often literary systems
\b0 \cf4 \'97designated social, material, and political contexts for literary development and change\'97
\b \cf4 than the \'93concepts of literary study\'94
\b0 \cf4  (1). And while Moretti previously identified the importance of literary systems in their inclusion of the \'93great unread\'94 (\'93Conjectures\'94 55), these concepts of literary study (including characterization, plot, and dramatic form) are 
\b \cf4 approached predominantly through formal and computational analyses of canonical literary works
\b0 \cf4 .\'94 (Bode 20)\
\
\'93in their literary-historical work 
\b \cf4 both Moretti and Jockers present literary data and digital collections as precritical, stable, and self-evident
\b0 \cf4 . In conceiving data and computation as providing direct and comprehensive access to the literary-historical record, they deny the critical and interpretive activities that construct that data and digital record and make them available for analysis.\'94 (Bode 20)\
\
Bode attributes Moretti\'92s failings to \'93Moretti\'92s lack of interest in the scholarly infrastructure that enables his analyses.\'94(21)\
\'93In presenting digital \'93archives\'94 or collections as \'93there to stay,\'94 
\b \cf4 Moretti disregards their status\'97like bibliographies\'97as interpretative constructs.
\b0 \cf4  And unlike print-based bibliographies, most digital collections are constantly changing: a dynamism with significant practical and conceptual challenges for literary history.\'94 (Bode 22)\
\
\'93According to Jockers, literary scholars \'93have the equivalent of\'a0.\'a0.\'a0. big data in the form of big [digital] libraries\'a0.\'a0.\'a0. [or] massive digital-text collections,\'94 and these enable \'93investigations at a scale that reaches or approaches a point of being comprehensive. 
\b \cf4 The once inaccessible \'91population\'92 has become accessible and is fast replacing the random and representative sample
\b0 \cf4 \'94 (7\'968). As Jockers says of one of Moretti\'92s analyses, such unprecedented and supposedly uninterrupted access to the documentary basis of literary history \'93leaves little room for debate\'94 (20): a perspective that overlooks the fact that 
\b \cf4 all collections are selections, made according to (implicit or explicit) arguments about value, and with varying degrees of expertise and funding
\b0 \cf4 .\'94 (Bode 22)\
\'93While Moretti occasionally acknowledges limitations in his data (before proceeding with analyses regardless), 
\b \cf4 Jockers maintains that any \'93leap from the specific to the general\'94 is flawed because based on interpretation
\b0 \cf4  (28).\'94 (Bode 23)\
\
\'93A recent collaboration of the Stanford Literary Lab, which Jockers Page 24 
\f1 \cf4 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 \cf4 is no longer part of, departs in one important way from the approach to literary history, data, mass digitization, and computation I have described (Algee-Hewitt et al.).5 
\b \cf4 Literary Lab Pamphlet 11 closely attends to the gaps between \'93the published\'94 (all literary works made public in history), \'93the archive\'94 (the portion of what was published that has been preserved and is now increasingly digitized), and \'93the corpus\'94 (the segment of the archive selected for a research question). 
\b0 \cf4 Although incorrectly imagining that the \'93convergence of these three layers into one\'a0.\'a0.\'a0. may soon be reality,\'94 in acknowledging that this state has not been achieved, the authors admit the constructed\'97and selective\'97nature of literary data. Yet Pamphlet 11 follows Moretti\'92s and Jockers\'92s precedent in misconstruing the nature of our disciplinary infrastructure, in that the authors presume to overcome the selections and biases of mass-digitized collections by using analog bibliographies to generate \'93a random sample\'94 of what was published (2). This strategy 
\b \cf4 misses the vital point that both digitized collections and analog bibliographies are derived from \'93the archive,\'94
\b0 \cf4  predominantly the collections of major (usually American or British) \'93university libraries. Pamphlet 11 also replicates Moretti\'92s and Jockers\'92s approach in not publishing its datasets.6\'94 (Bode 23-24)\
\
\'93In Moretti\'92s case, one might suppose it possible to reconstruct his datasets from cited sources. But his account (in an appendix to Graphs) of creating the dataset for \'93British novelistic genres, 1740\'961900,\'94 highlightsPage 25 
\f1 \cf4 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 \cf4  why this is not feasible. There he describes his periodization as \'93not always explicit\'94 in the bibliographies (31), thus 
\b \cf4 evincing the role of his own\'97unpublished and therefore unspecified\'97interpretive decisions in data construction
\b0 \cf4 . And even if Jockers listed all the titles and authors he analyzed, it would be impossible to reconstruct the basis of his arguments without access to the textual data he uses, which are 
\b \cf4 not just texts of literary works but highly prepared\'97or preinterpreted\'97selections
\b0 \cf4  from those texts. Neither critics nor supporters of Moretti\'92s and Jockers\'92s methods typically comment on this lack of published data. But far from an incidental oversight,
\b \cf4  this practice maintains the fiction that literary data are prior to interpretation
\b0 \cf4 : it removes the need either to describe the procedures for collecting, cleaning, and curating datasets or to expose the inevitably selective and limited collections resulting from that construction.\'94 (Bode 24-25)\cf3 \
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \'93
\b The meaning derived from a literary-historical dataset\'97like the interpretation of a literary work\'97is shaped, profoundly, by the methodological and critical frameworks through which it is approached
\b0 , and by the selections and amplifications those frameworks produce. Two scholars can read the same dataset\'97like the same literary work\'97and derive different meanings. \'85\'93In the absence of data publication, distant reading and macroanalysis are analogous to a scholar finding a set of documents in an archive or archives, transcribing them, analyzing those transcriptions, publishing the findings, and asserting that they demonstrate a definitive new perspective on the literary field, without enabling anyone to read the transcriptions (or in Jockers\'92s case, without revealing the titles of most of the original documents).\'94 (25)\
\
\'93In modeling literary systems, Moretti and Jockers define literary works as single entities in time and space, typically located as such by the date of first book publication and the author\'92s nationality. Literary works are constituted as literary systems when they share these basic features\'97as in \'93nineteenth-century\'94 or \'93British\'94 novels\'97with other characteristics added within that framework (such as the author\'92s gender or the work\'92s genre).\'94 (26)\
\
\'93William St Clair\'92s The Reading Nation in the Romantic Period aptly diagnoses the limitations of this approach. Like Moretti and Jockers, St Clair rejects what he calls the \'93parade of authors\'94 convention in literary history, where canonical authors file past the commentator\'92s box in chronological order, taken as representative of the historical period in which they wrote. But he equally dismisses the \'93parliament of texts\'94 approach, where literary works first published at a particular time, and usually by authors of a particular nationality, are understood as \'93debating and negotiating with one another in a kind of open parliament with all the members participating and listening\'94 (4). As St Clair notes, literary systems frequently include \'93texts written or compiled long ago and far away\'94 (3), and some literary works are inevitably more widely published, circulated, read, and referenced than others.\'94 (27)\
\
\'93The date of first book publication overlooks the differing availability of literary works in the years after they are published and that first book editions are not necessarily\'97and for many periods are rarely\'97the first time works are available\'85. Likewise, an author\'92s nationality is a poor marker for the geographical existence of a literary work in a marketplace that has been globalized since at least the eighteenth century. More broadly, the construction of literary systems from the categories supplied by enumerative bibliographies\'97the title, the author, the date of publication, the publisher, and by association, the text\'97ignores the different titles, author names, dates and places of publication, and texts that occur as literary works are issued and reissued,Page 28 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  and the implications of these differences for understanding production and reception.\'94 (27-28)\
\
\'93Because [Jockers] is modeling a diffused and generalized system, the \'93influence\'94 of gender, genre, temporality, and nationality is in turn diffuse and generalized.\
The inadequacy of this conception of literary systems is foregrounded when Moretti considers readers, who, as Anne DeWitt notes, \'93are both central to his argument and absent from his evidence\'94 (162). Moretti takes literary data on publication and/or formal features of literary works as both expressive of and explicable by the actions of readers and the market.\'94 (Bode 29)\
\
\'93
\b Moretti proposes a framework for canon formation
\b0 , wherein readers are the \'93butchers\'94 of literary history \'93who read novel A (but not B, C, D, E, F, G, H\'a0.\'a0.\'a0.) and so keep A \'93alive\'94 into the next generation, when other readers may keep it alive into the following one, and so on until eventually A becomes canonized. 
\b Readers, not professors, make canons.
\b0 \'94 (67) Nominating formal choices as the reason readers select certain titles over others, Moretti employs the example of detective fiction and decodable clues to demonstrate this process. He identifies the presence of such clues in Arthur Conan Doyle\'92s fiction as the reason that author was progressively selected by generations of readers to attain his now canonical status. Again, this is an interesting but circular argument. \'94 (Bode 30) \'97 this is his evolutionary theory of detective fiction paper\
\
\'93
\b Moretti assumes that authors who have a canonical status in the present were selected from the time of first publication. 
\b0 This argument is intrinsic to his evolutionary model, and while Moretti supports it by citing an empirical study (68), others show its falsity. St Clair, for instance, demonstrates the minute early nineteenth-century readerships of five of the \'93big six\'94 Romantic male poets (excepting Byron) who form the contemporary canon (660): however that Romantic canon was formed, it was not Page 31 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 based on the poetry contemporaneous readers preferred. \'94 (Bode 30-31)\
\
\'93My argument is not against reduction and abstraction per se. While especially obvious in data-rich studies (which rely on identifying attributes that can be represented in uniform fields), reduction and abstraction characterize all analysis. Close readings do not interpret literary works as a whole but specific, extracted instances of particular, abstracted features of those works. What I am arguing is lost in Moretti\'92s and Jockers\'92s approach\'97especially in their definition of literary systems as analogous to first book publication by authors of a designated nationality\'97is precisely a historical sense of \'93interconnection.\'94\'94 (Bode 31)\
\
\'93
\b close and distant reading are conceived as antithetical in their assumptions and approaches. However, the main problems I have sought to diagnose in distant reading
\b0  
\b and macroanalysis
\b0 \'97a disregard for textual scholarship and an assumption that literary works are stable and singular entities\'97
\b are ones they share with the New Criticism and its foundational method of close reading.
\b0  Distant reading and macroanalysis take the core object and premise of the New Criticism\'97the decontextualized text as the source of all meaning\'97to a conclusion rendered more abstract and extreme by the number of texts under consideration.\'94 (Bode 32)\
\'93
\b Despite the apparent demise of the New Criticism, the continuing centrality of close reading
\b0  in literary studies, including literary history, and the rhetorical focus of such research on the text, 
\b perpetuates the earlier movement\'92s dismissal of textual scholarship
\b0  (Cain). As Eggert (\'93Book\'94), McGann (\'93Note\'94), and others have observed, assuming that literary works are texts, and that texts Page 33 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 are single, stable, and self-evident entities, dismisses the documentary record\'92s multiplicity, and with it the critical contributions of those endeavors\'97bibliography and scholarly editing\'97dedicated to investigating and understanding that multiplicity.\'94 (Bode 32-33)\
\'93
\b close readings are generally protected
\b0  from the abstraction inherent in the notion of the text 
\b by the knowledge infrastructure in which they are embedded
\b0 , and by a focus on particular documents. Scholarly editions provide critics with carefully historicized texts for consideration; when one is not available, the standard practice of bibliographical referencing ties discussion of the supposedly singular text to a version of the work. \'85 
\b Distant reading and macroanalysis do not benefit from such provisions
\b0  or protections; to the contrary, as this chapter has argued, these approaches negate the interpretive nature of the disciplinary infrastructure they use, as well as their own role in constructing the meaning of the data they derive from it.\'94 (Bode 33)\
\'93Moretti\'92s investigations of readers based only on data relating to first book publications enacts this view of the text as inevitably containing all that is relevant to interpreting it. In treating the literary system as a dispersed linguistic field, Jockers takes the rhetoric of text to its ultimate conclusion, proposing a literary-historical world in which there are no structures beyond the textual. \'85\'93Far from the opposite of close reading, the dematerialized and depopulated understanding of literature in Jockers\'92s work enacts the New Criticism\'92s neglect of context.\'94 (Bode 34)\
\
\'93
\b When a gap exists between the contemporary object assessed and the historical object it supposedly represents
\b0 \'97and when the critic is unaware or dismissive of that gap\'97
\b no degree of nuance or care in the reading can supply that historical meaning.
\b0  Herein lies the fundamental problem with proposing to integrate close and distant reading as the obvious way forward for research in literary history. \'85 Yet in couching debate about the role of data purely in terms of method, this response maintains the focus on the mode of analysis employed and conceals the lack of an adequately historicized object to analyze. 
\b What data-rich literary history needs is an object capable of representing literary systems
\b0 \'97as manifestations of literary works that existed and generated meaning in relation to each other in the past\'97
\b while managing the documentary record\'92s complexity
\b0 , especially as it is manifested in new digital knowledge infrastructure. The lack of such an object, not the fundamental opposition of data and literature, is the real reason it has proven so difficult, in practice if not in theory, to Page 35 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 integrate \'93traditional and computational methods\'94 for the purposes of historical investigation (Gibbs and Cohen 70).\'94 (Bode 34-35)}