{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 The perversity of this method might seem like a bad-faith interpretation of literary studies, or an attempt to debunk or hoax literature scholarship. If scholars expend considerable expertise in order to select specific illustrative texts to support their arguments about a period of literature, why should it \'93work\'94 to skip that expertise? If I produce an analysis from random texts, doesn\'92t that mean that other scholars\'92 choices of texts don\'92t matter? But I do this experiment in part to understand why literary analysis 
\i does
\i0  work: if textual selection isn\'92t the important part, then the important part lies elsewhere. At first, I thought it was very possible that this would not work, that I would produce an incoherent list with nothing to offer our understanding of 1790s literature. (Indeed, my reader may still judge that I have failed.) But as I began to read, it seemed like literary close-reading can in fact find informative meaning even with completely arbitrary texts. I think this success is not, in fact, too remarkable. If the core thesis is something like \'93historical contexts have perceivable impacts on literary output,\'94 then those impacts 
\i ought
\i0  to be present in all texts\'97 and therefore ought to be perceivable in 
\i any
\i0  text.\
The problem with arbitrary textual selection is not that one cannot find traces of historical processes; it\'92s a rhetorical-narrative problem. Underwood and Piper both discuss the fact that part of what a literary scholar does is 
\i tell a good story
\i0 . It can be hard to tell a good story about an invoice, especially when one cannot even read the invoice itself.}