{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Among the mistakes made by Miss Milner and Dorriforth in the first half seems to have been an unwillingness to acknowledge the strength of their feelings, which prevents them from responding to them appropriately, and leads them into complicated and uncomfortable deceptions. When Miss Milner avows a false passion for Lord Frederick, or when Dorriforth very nearly marries the blank and dutiful Miss Fenton, for example, they spend weeks in miserable confusion. Dorriforth\'92s constant refrain is \'93How can I judge, if she will not confide in me, but thus for ever deceive me?\'94 (II.III) Rushworth and Matilda manage only a very mild improvement on this state of affairs. Whenever Rushworth intrudes upon Matilda with his unrequited love for her, he explicitly asks her the questions which Dorriforth only posed rhetorically. He then mostly desists from the attentions she forbids him; unlike the rake Lord Margrave, he does not intentionally \'93persecute the pretended object of [his] affection\'94 (VI.V). But the result is that Matilda, like Miss Milner, is partly bullied and partly tricked into her marriage. In Matilda and Rushworth\'92s tepid engagement scene (IV.XII), the narrator informs us firmly that \'93\cf2 \cb3 She loved him as her friend, her cousin, her foster-brother, but not as a lover.\'94 We are then \'93left to surmise,\'94 when he asks for her hand, \'93[w]hether the heart of Matilda, such as it has been described, could sentence him to misery.\'94 The heart of Miss Milner could, perhaps, have given such a sentence, but Matilda, the narrative makes clear, could not.}