{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl960\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 <$Scr_H::1>
\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 1790s synthesis
\f2\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl520\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::1>
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 The 1790s often capture our imagination for their poetic and political revolutions, but beyond 
\i Lyrical Ballads
\i0  and the \'91pamphlet wars\'92 the print mediascape of the late eighteenth century [has a trait].\'a0
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 It is hard not to read these texts, anachronistically, for their failures. A medicine that claims to treat scurvy, tubercular swelling, and leprosy, such as the THING advertised in [TITLE], might call to mind the long period of time in which the eighteenth century failed to take notice of the cure for scurvy which was demonstrated experimentally by LIND in YEAR. A chapbook prophecy promising \'93war and rumours of war\'94
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 One reason that literary history matters is that the fate of texts like Erasmus Darwin\'92s 
\i Zoonomia
\i0  rests in our hands. As a medical text, 
\i Zoonomia
\i0  is painfully full of failures: it begins from a few fundamentally untenable assumptions, takes them to wild conclusions, and prescribes treatments that seem sometimes beneficial only by accident. Moreover, since it largely follows existing trends in medical theories, even its wrongness is generally overshadowed by the more seminal and illustrative wrongness of XXX (cite scurvy guy). The assessment \'93ILLUSTRATIVE QUOTE\'94 falls far short of the texts own earnest aspiration to BE A NEWTON. [and yet we still respect it too much]
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl960\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 <$Scr_H::1>
\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 Textual selection
\f2\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl520\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::1>
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 I have attempted, above, to form a narrative about the 1790s. It has little in common with many other narratives of this decade, because it is the product of an intentionally unconventional research methodology. [LOTS ABOUT OUR RESEARCH METHODS, FROM PIPER AND UNDERWOOD; TALK ABOUT HOW CLOSE READING DOES ACTUALLY WORK]
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 The rest of this dissertation has been centrally concerned with the impacts of textual selection, writ large. [PARA ON THIS]
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 How, then, did I come to read the texts from which I drew my evidence for this narrative of the 1790s? Through the logical extreme as a counter to selection bias of various kind: random selection.}