{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Correlate gender and genre in databases,
\b0  make some graphs, make some arguments.\
\cf2 \'93Visualizing\cf3  \cf0 the Print Mediascape of\cf2  the 1790s.\'94 North American Society for the Study of Romanticism. Toronto, ON, August 6-8, 2020.\cf3 \
\
The 1790s saw unprecedented quantities of print production, spurring debates about how best to identify which works of writing were worthy of further attention. Competing value systems offered different ways to understand what made a work \'93important\'94 or \'93popular,\'94 with particular conflict around what made a work \'93literature.\'94 My research examines the mirror-image of this question, asking what kind of publications were 
\i normal
\i0 . After a series of computational experiments in drawing inferences from bibliographic metadata, I present several ways of visualizing the print output of the 1790s, particularly in terms of gender and genre. \
My research examines the authorship and subject matter (broadly construed) of all titles printed in England between 1789 and 1799 which are included in the English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC) database, the Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO) database, the Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation Partnership (ECCO-TCP) corpus, or the HathiTrust database. I calculate the proportion of the titles in each resource that are attributed to men, to women, or are left unsigned. Using the titles of these works and a topic modelling tool which has performed accurately when compared to a manual assessment of random samples, I also roughly identify the subject matter of each title, categorizing works into broad genres such as drama, poetry, Romance, History, or sermons. I am then able to compare these four resources to each other, and to existing scholarly work on the print production of the 1790s. For example, I am able to compare each resource\'92s holdings to the statistics on the English novel included in Garside, Raven and Sch\'f6werling\'92s 
\i Bibliographical Survey of Prose Fiction
\i0 . The core of this paper is a series of data visualizations presenting my experimental results, and drawing on Johanna Drucker\'92s work on the \
These comparisons illuminate the implicit principles of selection which have shaped the ECCO-TCP and HathiTrust digital collections, but also suggest conclusions about the period itself. I present multiple ways of visualizing the same underlying \'93data,\'94 (that is, the print production of the 1790s itself) in order to analyze the implications of each way of seeing the decade\'92s literature. From what viewpoint, for example, can we see the hordes of female Radcliffean imitators which were so decried for dominating the print marketplace? And what other visions are possible?\
\
\
\
\
\
In the 1790s, in response to unprecedented volumes of print production, British audiences disagreed about how to identify which works of writing were worthy of further attention. Despite sometimes grandiose claims that computational distant reading would make it possible to examine all of literature, without needing to make selections, it is still a matter of important debate to discuss what qualifies a work as \'93important,\'94 \'93literary,\'94 or \'93popular.\'94 In this paper, I focus specifically on writing printed in England between 1789 and 1799, to discuss what constitutes 
\i normal
\i0  within this eleven-year \'93decade,\'94 and therefore which works and authors might emerge as exceptional.  Particular attention is paid to what contexts reveal, or conceal, the importance of writers as diverse as William Wordsworth, Ann Radcliffe, and Hannah More.}