{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Something on politics: chapter on the radical press, which is something else entirely. Pamphlets, essays, periodicals. Engage with an exciting and burgeoning field. Joseph-Johnson Circle: printed Wollstonecraft & Paine. Think about individual printers as having political allegiances; radical publishers. Dissenting societies. My question is: who was publishing? Are we not seeing these text? Conservative works/responses overrepresented in the corpora? Social network graphs?? Authors choosing publishers strategically. Coterie publishing? Inchbald\'92s The Massacre circulated in manuscript, not published\'85. Alternative print markets and alternative circulation. (Complicate the story of popularity?) Radical Underworld monograph. \'97\'97 And how to ethically engage with things that circulated intentionally under the radar, intentionally trying not to be collected into some big systematized database? Or maybe I undo the argument that this was happening surreptitiously/underground?\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 My fifth chapter builds on the work of Michael Gamer and others, \'a0describes the relationship of the Gothic to Romanticism. This chapter could be well-served by a stylometric approach, examining \'93Gothic vocabularies\'94 in full texts, to explore the reach of the Gothic. I am particularly interested in comparing the strategies used by writers who wish to use Gothic materials without \'93being\'94 Gothic (like Hannah More and William Wordsworth), those who accept being Gothic but without being \'93unserious\'94 (like Ann Radcliffe and Charlotte Smith), and those who embrace both the Gothic and its charge of unseriousness. Matthew Lewis may provide a useful case study for debates about \'93redeeming literary value\'94 in the Gothic.}