{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Smaller collections allow for more scholarly curation, but have corresponding limitations. Whereas the \'91main players\'92 can be easily enumerated for the mega-archives, these specialized collections are numerous. Some will focus on particular kinds of texts, such as the Early Novels Database (2,041 novels 1700-1799) or Broadside Ballads Online (more than 30,000 broadside ballads). Others exhaustively index particular publications, such as The Hampshire Chronicle, the Index to the Lady\'92s Magazine (1770 to 1818), or the Novels Reviewed Database (1,836 reviews from\'a0The Critical Review\'a0and The\'a0Monthly Review, 1790-1820). Feminist scholarship in particular has seen the creation of resources like the Orlando Project, the Chawton House library Novels Online, Northeastern University\'92s Women Writers Online and UC Davis\'92s British Women Romantic Poets. The virtue of these collections is that they achieve even greater accuracy and comprehensiveness within their defined scope. The Shelley-Godwin Archive, for example, can reasonably aspire to digitize 
\i every
\i0  known manuscript of Percy Bysshe Shelley, Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley, William Godwin, and Mary Wollstonecraft, and to provide these manuscripts in hand-encoded plaintext transcripts. However, as is inevitable, these specialized archives have the vices of their virtues: their specialized focus allows them to adapt precisely to their materials, and their idiosyncratic data structures can rarely be combined with other resources. The William Blake Archive, for example, benefits enormously from designing its archive around the unique images of each page of each copy of each of Blake\'92s works. But because this approach is so well-suited to Blake, it cannot be applied beyond Blake. Even if the archive\'92s resources were available for download, they could not be directly compared to materials from another source which does not record its information at such a minute level of detail. \
Also in the category of smaller and specialized archives is Project Gutenberg. Project Gutenberg makes no claims to scholarly reliability but nonetheless underlies a not-significant amount of scholarly {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://357B9F40-D159-479A-A6E8-A43C51568564"}}{\fldrslt work}} \'97 its cultural capital as a resource lags far behind its use and utility. Project Gutenberg is easily conceived of as a haphazard, \'91unscholarly\'92 source for materials, but unlike Google Books, Project Gutenberg actually does have selection criteria. Project Gutenberg will only collect public domain works which contemporary audiences might be interested in reading for pleasure. It narrows the field substantially to exclude works which have either ceased to be broadly interesting (as in the case of most forgotten fiction), or which was never particularly interesting (as in the case of almanacs and tax codes). Project Gutenberg includes 57,796 texts: far more than specialized scholarly archives like the Early Novels Database or the Shelley-Godwin Archive, but nonetheless an order of magnitude fewer than its more-voracious potential competitors. And, like smaller specialized scholarly archives, Project Gutenberg has tailored its holdings to make it easy for readers to read, and quite difficult for its collection to be applied to any other use. By tailoring the structure of the archive itself to its specific materials, these collections are able to thoughtfully achieve their aims \'97 but they also make it correspondingly difficult for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://94B5D50F-1207-43F9-9BFE-DAE1DFFE6456"}}{\fldrslt users}} to achieve their own, different aims.}