{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Underlying these arguments is an intention to extend a transnational consciousness to data-rich literary history. With notable exceptions, 
\b there is a tendency in that field to treat large corpuses of American and British literature as a universal literary record
\b0 . In exploring\'97and offering for exploration by others\'97a digitized body of works from around the world, published in the Australian colonies, I hope to disrupt the implicit national biases and globalizing impulses present in data-rich literary history.\'94 (200)\
\
\'93Most remarkably, this book shows an entirely new structure and organization for nineteenth-century Australian literary culture, one in which the metropolitan periodicals that have received almost all the critical attention emerge as less prolific, and less interconnected, in their publication of fiction than their neglected provincial counterparts. \'85 To put the case bluntly, this book shows that Australian literary, book, and periodical scholars have been investigating colonial writing, publishing, and reading through a framework that obscures the major parts of it.\'94 (201)\
\
\'93These are simply some of the questions and approaches that I can think of. Equally important, if not far more so, to the future use of this scholarly edition are those questions and approaches I have not conceived. Such 
\b future research is possible because the meanings that this scholarly edition makes possible are not inherent in the curated
\b0  Page 207 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 d
\b ataset but emerge from interactions with it.
\b0  
\b Like a mass-digitized collection
\b0 \'97or a scholarly edition of a literary work\'97the meanings of a scholarly edition of a literary system are produced transactionally. Those transactions are supported by the historical details Carol and I have accumulated regarding literary works and their documentary manifestations and are shaped by the organization of that information into uniform fields and hierarchical structures in accordance with both database form and my arguments about the nature and meaning of the literary system. But 
\b the outcomes of those inquiries are not predetermined
\b0 : they exceed the detail and the form; 
\b they are unpredictable because they arise from a documentary record that is formed and reformed in the investigation of it
\b0 . \'94 (206-7)\
\
\'93I complete this book in the context of
\b  uncertainty in future government funding
\b0  for Trove\'92s newspaper digitization program (Wynne).3 This situation carries distinct d\'e9j\'e0 vu. My last book, Reading by Numbers, offered a new history of the Australian novel by analyzing AustLit, the most extensive, online bibliography of a national literature then Page 208 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 available. That book was finalized in the shadow of looming\'97later enacted\'97cuts to AustLit, and now I find myself in a similar position with Trove. This is despite the fact that Trove, as well as offering the largest collection of mass-digitized historical newspapers internationally, is vitally important to researchers and the Australian community and is recognized as world leading in how it presents and supports engagement with its holdings. 
\b It would seem that Australia has an unfortunate habit of creating world-leading digital humanities resources and then defunding them. Of course, this is not a uniquely Australian problem. 
\b0 As I write we face the possibility, for instance, that America\'92s National Endowment for the Humanities, and the multiple digital-knowledge infrastructure projects it supports, will be defunded. While I have sought to make the point that all collections\'97analog or digital\'97are selections, 
\b such funding cuts are depressingly pointed examples of why mass digitization is no magic solution to previous constraints
\b0  on access to the documentary record.\'94 (207-8)\
\'93I raise the issue of funding not simply to protest present circumstances but to note their continuity with the past and to highlight the actions they require of literary historians for the future. While the prevailing discourse of crisis encourages a perception of the present as different from and worse than past times, 
\b the humanities have always been subject to the \'93real\'94 world. Financial and other constraints have inevitably limited, and will always limit, which of an essentially infinite array of cultural objects can be collected, preserved, and transmitted.
\b0  Rather than a reason to despair, this situation 
\b emphasizes the continuing importance of long-standing editorial and curatorial practices
\b0  for the present and future of the humanities.\'94 (208)\
\'93Far from an esoteric preoccupation, 
\b textual scholarship has always been a response to real-world conditions and constraints: to the need to identify, understand, and manage gaps in the documentary record so as to provide an effective and explicit foundation for current and future interpretations
\b0  and insights. Notwithstanding the influence of researchers such as Moretti and Jockers on academic and public perceptions of digital humanities, this space of mediation, collection, translation, and curation\'97of understanding and managing the constraints presented by the real world\'97is where much of the field actually sits. I offer the scholarly edition of a literary system as a contribution to this ongoing work: as a framework for enacting curatorial practices Page 209 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 in the context of data-rich literary history and emerging digital, particularly mass-digitized, knowledge infrastructure and for extending insights gained through such practices to the broader discipline. In providing a rigorous and publicly accessible representation of how past literary works existed and interacted with one another\'97and with publishers, readers, and the world\'97and in offering arguments on that basis, I have sought to build on historical practices to enable and demonstrate the future of literary history. 
\b I have sought, in other words, to encounter the constraints of the real world, and to pursue knowledge not only despite, but with them
\b0 .\'94 (208-9)}