{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 An eighth edition was published in 1787, followed by a \'93new edition\'94 in 1790 of two volumes in one, followed by a 1792 reprint of the new one-volume edition (Dobson xxv). This appears to be the version I have. 1792 also saw a two-volume edition which called itself the twenty-second edition, probably by counting all the non-London eds (since 8 only counts London) (Dobson xxv). Dobson describes a LOT of editions, up to his own day\'97 1885. Dobson says that sales are rapid in 1766 (three fast editions), but slow by 1770 (Dobson xvi). The fourth edition sold at a loss, and the three owners of the book seemed to think they would not make much more money on it; the fifth edition, promised in 1773, was deferred to 1774 (Dobson xvii). The sixth edition was 1779. Dobson concludes that \'93The demand for the book I its early days, or at all events, for the authorised edition, cannot therefore have been quite so urgent as has been usually supposed\'94 (Dobson xvii).\
Dobson assumes print runs of roughly a thousand \'97 it would be worth going back more carefully over these numbers, and those used by others later, to contextualize whether these are large or small print runs, fast or slow sales.\
\
The HathiTrust scan of Dobson is unusually bad, with a HUGE number of repeated pages.\
\
It presents itself as a \'93facsimile\'94 edition but since it is from 1885 this appears to mean\'85 that it was typeset with 18thC type to match the first edition? Surely there\'92s no direct image transfer...? Was it just for fun that the preface was also typeset in an 18thC font, or was there a practical reason for it? (When I was trying to skim the page images to spot the promised preface and bibliography, I skipped right past them because they looked too much like 18thC pages!)}