{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi240\sl280\sa60\qj

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \'91I ask pardon, Sir,\'92 cried I, \'91for interrupting so much learning; but I think I have heard all this before. Have I not had the pleasure of once seeing you at Welbridge fair, and is not your name Ephraim Jenkinson?\'92 At this demand he only sighed. \'91I suppose you must recollect,\'92 resumed I, \'91one Doctor Primrose, from whom you bought a horse.\'92\
He now at once recollected me; for the gloominess of the place and the approaching night had prevented his distinguishing my features before.\'97\'91Yes, Sir,\'92 returned Mr Jenkinson, \'91I remember you perfectly well; I bought an horse, but forgot to pay for him. Your neighbour Flamborough is the only prosecutor I am any way afraid of at the next assizes: for he intends to swear positively against me as a coiner. I am heartily sorry, Sir, I ever deceived you, or indeed any man; for you see,\'92 continued he, shewing his shackles, \'91what my tricks have brought me to.\'92\

\b \'91Well, sir,\'92 replied I, \'91your kindness in offering me assistance, when you could expect no return, shall be repaid with my endeavours to soften or totally suppress Mr Flamborough\'92s evidence, and I will send my son to him for that purpose the first opportunity
\b0 ; nor do I in the least doubt but he will comply with my request, 
\b and as to my evidence, you need be under no uneasiness about that.
\b0 \'92\
\'91Well, sir,\'92 cried he, \'91all the return I can make shall be yours. You shall have more than half my bed-cloaths to night, and I\'92ll take care to stand your friend in the prison, where I think I have some influence.\'92\
I thanked him, and could not avoid being surprised at the present youthful change in his aspect; for at the time I had seen him before he appeared at least sixty.\'97\'91Sir,\'92 answered he, you are little acquainted with the world; I had at that time false hair, and have learnt the art of counterfeiting every age from seventeen to seventy. Ah sir, had I but bestowed half the pains in learning a trade, that I have in learning to be a scoundrel, I might have been a rich man at this day. But rogue as I am, still I may be your friend, and that perhaps when you least expect it.\'92\
}