{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red15\green128\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 This is probably my \'93big chapter\'94\
\
\cf3 \'93Chapter 2, \'93Back to the Future: A New Object for (Data-Rich) Literary History,\'94 responds to this challenge by articulating the case for and describing a scholarly edition of a literary system.\'94(6)\
\'93I argue that explicit engagement with modeling, as the method has been theorized in digital humanities, has significant potential to enhance data-rich literary history by offering a mechanism through which to interrogate and refine conceptions of literary works and systems. But modeling alone is insufficient as a basis for the field. A data-rich model of a literary system is inevitably an argument shaped by not only the scholar\'92s perception of cultural artifacts and phenomena but the complex history by which those artifacts and phenomena are transmitted to and by us in the present. \'94 (6)\
\'93
\b A scholarly edition of a literary work is sometimes perceived simply as a version with extra references
\b0 , or with added historical context. 
\b In fact, it is an argument
\b0 \'97a historical and critical but also a technicalPage 7 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  one\'97that offers a foundation for other literary-critical and historical arguments to build upon. It presents that argument through a curated text, one for which the content is, by definition, contested, and a critical apparatus that demonstrates and manages those contested features by describing and justifying the editor\'92s engagement with the documentary record relating to a literary work, including with the inevitable gaps, remediations, and uncertainties that engagement exposes and creates.\'94  (6-7)\cf4 \
\
\'93I argue that the field\'92s foundational technology of the scholarly edition supplies both the supports and constraints necessary for data-rich literary history, while providing a framework capable of extending the insights gained from engagements with emerging digital infrastructure to the broader discipline.\'94 (Bode 35)\
\
\'93In making the case for and describing a new object of analysis for data-rich literary history, based on the scholarly edition, this chapter builds on McGann\'92s call for \'93philology in a new key,\'94 most recently in A New Republic of Letters, and on Eggert\'92s work on the scholarly edition as a model for conservation broadly, in Securing the Past.\'94 (Bode 37)\
\'93Like McGann, I propose that 
\b literary scholars respond to the challenges of digitization by employing the theoretical and practical framework through which they have long negotiated the complexity of the documentary record
\b0 . \'94 (Bode 37)\
\
Trying to go \'93beyond the view of digital literary history as defined by either the multiplication of data points (in Moretti\'92s and Jockers\'92s work) or the elaboration of unique and ultimately unknowable philological objects (in McGann\'92s).\'94 (Bode 38)\
\
\'93Explicit engagement with modeling, as the method is theorized in digital humanities, is essential for data-rich literary history, but 
\b modeling alone is insufficient. Modeling recognizes data as constructed, but only by the individual scholar; it does not provide a mechanism to interrogate the history of transmission preceding and perpetuated by the scholar\'92s engagement
\b0  with the documentary record, including in its mass-digitized forms. The framework of the scholarly edition meets that challenge, presenting a structure to negotiate the incomplete and transactional nature of the documentary record and to represent the outcomes of that process.\'94 (Bode 38)\
\
p. 38-40: Lit review of several individual modeling-of-literary-systems papers \'97 which I could essentially use as the basis of my own.\
\'93These projects recognize that literary works do not exist in a single time and place but accrue meaning in the multiple contexts in which they are produced and received. And they create models based on that understanding to investigate key issues in literary history relating to production, circulation, and reception, ranging from the nature and development of literary movements and genres to the formation of authorial identities and cultural value.\'94 (Bode 40)\
\
\'93One contribution this book aims to make is to expand and enrich the application of modeling for data-rich literary history by connecting it explicitly to descriptive bibliography.\'94 (Bode 41)\
\
\'93The title changes that fiction underwent when published and republished in Australian newspapers offers a relatively straightforward example of this integration of modeling and descriptive bibliography. Collecting all manifestations of a literary work under the same title, though standard in enumerative bibliography, obscures how this documentary feature was constituted by different newspaper editors and syndicators and experienced by different reading communities. Modeling fiction with respect to the various titles used and the common title uniting related manifestations of a work supports insights into publication and reception: for instance, how editors altered the works they published and what this implies about their understandings of the readerships they served.\'94 (Bode 41)\
\
\'93Authorship was one of the most complicated features of this literary system to model. Not only were many titles published anonymously but, as chapter 4 explores in depth, some were published with attribution in one instance, and without attribution in another; some anonymously published authors remain unknown today, while others have been identified; and in many cases, the paratext of stories contained information about authorship, regardless of whether the work was published anonymously or with a named author. I embedded this information in the model through such fields as \'93publication author\'94 and \'93author,\'94 to differentiate the form of attribution used in the newspaper from a single name uniting an oeuvre; \'93signature,\'94 to identify other titles described as \'93by the author of\'94 the story within the publication event; and \'93inscribed gender\'94 and \'93inscribed nationality,\'94 to depict information in subtitles and other aspects of the publication event designating the story as by a man or woman and from a particular place. Detailed modeling of authorship enabled a significantly more nuanced representation and investigation of this literary-historical phenomenon than would be possible with a single author name. It also supported analysis of reception. By indicating features of authorship highlighted by different newspaper editors and syndicators, for example, it suggests ideas about cultural value informing literary culture in the colonies.\'94 (Bode 42)\
\
\'93
\b Like other forms of textual scholarship, bibliography is often perceived as precritical and procedural. But its descriptive form has always approached bibliographical data as \'93capta
\b0 , taken not given, constructed as an interpretation of the phenomenal world, not inherent in it\'94 (Drucker, \'93Humanities\'94 np). Modeling is likewise based on an understanding of data as contingent and constructed. Equally important, the 
\b two practices are underpinned by the same dual imperative: to enact and to enable critical analysis
\b0 .\'94 (Bode 42)\
\
\'93But however essential it is for data-rich literary history, modeling cannot be the sole foundation for the field. 
\b Models of literary systems are not simply arguments
\b0  about the existence of and connections between literary works in the past;
\b  they are arguments made with reference to the disciplinary infrastructure
\b0 \'97the bibliographies and collections, analog and digital\'97that transmit evidence of past works and relationships to the present. Modeling, even when integrated with descriptive bibliography as I have described, does not reflect on this transmission. Models embody a scholar\'92s arguments, whereas disciplinary infrastructure is an effect of multiple arguments: a sequence of assumptions, decisions, representations, and remediations. Such histories of transmission shape how the researcher can explore, and what she can know of, the historical context that disciplinary infrastructure appears to represent. To adequately perform literary history, data-rich projects must investigate these histories of transmission and how they constitute the documentary record.\'94 (Bode 42)\
\
\'93\'93Yet even when researchers use nonproprietary mass-digitized collections and move beyond the search box to export and explore the underlying data, the scope and reliability of such holdings are not ascertained. \'85  While these authors note the inevitable difference between the Page 48 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 newspapers published in the past and the mass-digitized collections used to investigate reprinting, they do not characterize the nature and extent of these gaps. \'85 Even fundamental questions, such as approximately what proportion of American newspapers have been digitized by Chronicling America, are not addressed.\
It may well be that the disciplinary infrastructure used by these projects adequately signifies the relationships of production and reception they seek to investigate, but this also might not be true, or it might be true to differing extents in the different cases. 
\b In not assessing whether and how well the data analyzed represents the historical context explored, these projects ultimately interpret the characteristics not of literary-historical systems but of particular components of our disciplinary infrastructure
\b0 .\'94 (Bode 47-8)\
\
Problem with snapshots of contemporary digital objects: \'93no matter how detailed his information about data construction, the basis of his study cannot be reproduced: the version of Amazon that Finn explores no longer exists. Finn\'92s arguments refer to his own model, and with that model unpublished, no one else can engage with these arguments on the grounds on which they are made.\'94 (Bode 49) Similarly, if data is published in ever-changing forms, \'93With that expression subsumed into an \'93evolving and experimental\'94 database, the basis of his argument no longer exists\'97at least, not in published form.\'94 (Bode 49)\
\
\'93Because these datasets are so time-consuming to construct, lack of data publication is a Page 50 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 significant impediment to cumulative scholarly endeavor in data-rich literary history. Without access to underlying data, visualizations and other data summaries become the only available \'93text\'94 for analysis. As well as concealing the data used, this situation occludes the fact that such summaries arise from\'97rather than simply invite\'97interpretation.\'94 (Bode 49-50)\
\
\'93But there is\'97and there is only\'97the capacity to represent the effects of engagements with particular digital collections at particular times. Herein lies 
\b the fundamental importance of data publication for data-rich literary history: in expressing a materiality that no longer exists in any other form, it offers the only possible basis for conversation on shared premises.
\b0  It is not enough to point to the mass-digitized collection or bibliographical database from which data were derived. The constitutive features of that entity have almost certainly altered. And even if the digital collection has not expanded (or contracted), data-rich literary history does not analyze the collection itself. It explores the effects of scholarly engagement with and interpretation of it.\'94 (Bode 50)\
\
\'93Of the data-rich literary history projects discussed in this chapter, Underwood and Sellers\'92s work on changing standards of literary prestigePage 51 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  most consistently enacts the curatorial elements present elsewhere in digital humanities, not least in terms of data publication. As the authors explain in an online working paper on the project, its most time-consuming element was not training their supervised model but constructing their dataset: identifying the different subgenres\'97poetry, prose, fiction, and drama\'97present in HathiTrust (\'93How,\'94 6). As well as publishing the datasets and code used in their article (\'93Code\'94), in collaboration with HathiTrust Underwood takes the major, additional step of releasing the outcome of analysis of that mass-digitized collection for others to use. This takes the form of \'93word counts for 101,948 volumes of fiction, 58,724 volumes of poetry, and 17,709 volumes of drama\'94 published from 1700 to 1922, as well as yearly summaries of word frequencies for each genre. Underwood refers to this dataset as a \'93collection\'94 to differentiate it from a \'93corpus\'94 because \'93I don\'92t necessarily recommend that you use the whole thing, as is. 
\i The whole thing
\i0  may or may not represent the sample you need for your research question\'94 (\'93Dataset\'94 np).\
Signifying growing recognition of the importance of data publication, the Underwood/HathiTrust collection is an important undertaking for data-rich literary history in at least two ways. In presenting a dataset designed for literary history, it offers a shared foundation for research. Working with it, researchers can ask a range of questions based on a reliable, standardized dataset and engage with each other\'92s arguments in terms not only of results produced but of data investigated. In characterizing that collection as the holdings of \'93American university and public libraries, insofar as they were digitized in the year 2012 (when the project began), Underwood also frames a major mass-digitized collection\'97HathiTrust\'97in terms of its history of transmission (\'93Dataset\'94 np). However general this framing, Underwood thus explicitly associates the dataset he publishes with a sequence of production and reception that profoundly affects its capacity to support historical analysis. In their article, Underwood and Sellers acknowledge that this history of transmission shapes their findings, noting that their model \'93makes more accurate\'94 predictions for American poetry collections because HathiTrust \'93mainly aggregates the collections of large American libraries\'94 (\'93Longue\'94 338).\'94 (Bode 50-51)\
\
\'93The challenge facing data-rich literary history\'97of proposing a historically coherent whole (a literary system) from a collection or collections of parts (the disciplinary infrastructure and the digitized documents and literary data it transmits)\'97suggests the strategy for meeting it. The scholarly edition has long offered both a theoretical basis and a practical technology for demonstrating and managing the documentary record\'92s partiality. Applied to the literary system rather than the literary work, the scholarly edition provides a framework for investigating the history of transmission constitutive of the literary system modeled, justifying the selections and decisions made in that analysis, and publishing the outcomes.\'94 (Bode 52)\
\'93
\b The critical apparatus describes and justifies the editor\'92s engagement with the documentary record
\b0  constitutive of the literary work, including the inevitable gaps and uncertainties that engagement exposes and creates. 
\b The curated text represents the outcome of that extended critical encounter
\b0 , offering to those who accept its tenets\'97or who lack the expertise to engage with the documentary record in that manner\'97both an argument about the nature of the literary work and a foundation for analysis of that work.\'94 (Bode 53)\
\'93
\b Much more than simply describing the construction of a dataset\'97something already offered by many data-rich literary history projects
\b0 \'97this critical apparatus elaborates the complex relationships between the historical context explored, the disciplinary infrastructure employed in investigating that context, the decisions and selections implicated in creating and remediating the collection or collections, and the transformations wrought by the editor\'92s extraction, construction, and analysis of that data.\'94 (Bode 53)\
\
\'93
\b A curated dataset replaces the curated text for a scholarly edition of a literary system
\b0 . In the form of bibliographical and textual data, it manifests\'97demonstrates and, specifically, publishes\'97the outcome of the sequence of production and reception, including the current moment of interpretation, described in the critical apparatus.\'94 (Bode 53)\
\'93The model it provides is stable: it is published and accessible for all to use, whether for conventional or computational literary history. But that stability does not belie or extinguish its hypothetical character. \'85 Its suitability and reliability for literary-historical research is established by a relationship between the historical phenomena and the data model that is explicitly interpretive and contingent rather than supposedly direct or natural.\'94 (Bode 53)\
\
\'93First, and most basically, where the latter is usable only by those with programming expertise, or access to it,
\b  a scholarly edition of a literary system should be accessible to all literary scholars
\b0  through an interface for searching, browsing, and exporting the curated dataset.\
Second, while the Underwood/HathiTrust collection is presented as raw data from which researchers can construct a sample, 
\b a scholarly edition of a literary system explicitly embodies an argument about historical relationships between literary works in a set time and place
\b0 , at the same time as it offers a sample of literary works for analysis.\'94 (Bode 54)\
\
She publishes in two modes \'97 data held by her institution, long-term storage but not very usable except by those who can code. And an interactive database, more usable but perhaps of a shorter lifespan.\cf2  (Bode 55)\cf4 \
\
\'93
\b what could and I think should be a key contribution of data-rich literary history to the broader discipline: an expanded bibliographical record
\b0 \'94 (Bode 56)\cf2 \
\
\'93Grounding data-rich literary history in scholarly editions of literary systems emphasizes that constructing literary data is just as much an interpretive and critical activity as its analysis and that the nuance of such analyses foundationally depends on the historical knowledge embedded in those constructions. With a scholarly edition of a literary system already, in and of itself, an argument about a \'93collective system\'a0.\'a0.\'a0. as a whole\'94 (Moretti, Graphs 4), analyses of it can attend to the multiple features and dimensions it models. Alan Liu\'92s notion of \'93contingency\'94 encapsulates the resulting analytic mode. Describing the relationship of historicism to the database, Liu notes that in neither form does one ask what is this whole, what does it mean? Rather, the question becomes 
\b how does this complex system I am investigating appear from this perspective?
\b0  Although the whole is composed of parts that are explicitly defined and constrained\'97\'93chained to context,\'94 as Liu puts it\'97the mode of inquiry it supports is transactional, enabling unpredictable connections and insights (Local 262).\
As with a scholarly edition of a literary work, a
\b  scholarly edition of a literary system is thus intended not to conclude but to support various forms of investigation
\b0 , including those that move between the single literary work and the system in which it existed and operated\'94 (Bode 56)\
\
\'93The approach to data-rich literary history I am advocating 
\b does not take the path increasingly recommended for the field: of integrating scientific and social scientific measures of statistical uncertainty
\b0  into historical analysis (Goldstone, \'93Distant\'94). Given that constructing literary data is a historical argument made in the context of a history of transmission\'97the effects of which are difficult to qualify, let alone to quantify\'97
\b I do not see that any assessment of error is made more useful or concise by its numerical expression
\b0 . Instead, in the intersection of a critical apparatus and curated dataset, the framework of the scholarly edition offers a theoretical and practical basis to model the relationships of production and reception that constitute historical literary systems, while assessing and managing the inevitable contingency of those relationships and of the documentary infrastructure through which we perceive them.\'94 (Bode 57)\
\
\'93A model of a literary system is not only an argument about the historical nature and meaning of interconnections between literary works in the past. As chapter 2 explores, inevitably, it is also the outcome of a history of transmission: the many instances of production and reception, including the scholar\'92s acts of interpretation, by which evidence of those historical meanings and connections is apprehended and represented. A history of transmission constitutes the object analyzed in data-rich literary history and, therefore, a project\'92s capacity to advance understanding. I ended chapter 2 by outlining an object capable of describing that engagement and justifying and demonstrating its outcomes. Called a scholarly edition of a literary system, it is comprised of a curated dataset, offering a stable and accessible model of the existence and interconnections of literary works in the past, and a critical apparatus that reveals the hypothetical nature of that modeled literary system and establishes it as a reliable basis for analysis. Along with designated fields in the curated dataset, detailing decisions and arguments underpinning individual data constructions, the critical apparatus for the scholarly edition underpinning this book\'97of extended fiction in nineteenth-century Australian newspapers\'97is composed of a historical introduction, describing the Page 60 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 broad features and effects of the history of transmission producing the modeled data.\'94 (Bode 59-60)}