{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 My current thinking on my dissertation consists of a series of questions which are, ultimately, about the construction of written canons. As I pose these questions, I am concerned with some interrelated dichotomies which fall out of this larger question: popularity versus seriousness, timeliness versus timelessness and marginalization versus canonization. I want to ask how works that are now considered serious and timeless have achieved their prominent positions, and examine \'93unserious\'94 or ephemeral works that reward further consideration. I thus wade directly into some of the most complex and contentious concerns of literary studies; my goal is to contribute something novel in my computational approaches, while taking part in the constant evolution of the current \'93canon.\'94
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 My introduction establishes the vocabularies that I will use. Chapter one engages with a digital humanities problem, to ask how existing corpora of eighteenth century literature (mis)represent the 1790s, establishing a foundation of knowledge for the following chapters. Chapter two introduces the driving stakes of the dissertation: it asks what long-term impact literary celebrity has on an author\'92s place in a canon, particularly for male versus female authors. Another argument I hope to advance is that literary works can be considered relevant to a given literary period, even after their original publication; my third chapter turns its attention to works originally written before the 1790s which nonetheless can be considered as important \'931790s literature\'94 due to successive re-printings during that decade. My fourth chapter pursues a different tack to focus on another set of widely-read works that are sometimes excluded from the category \'931790s literature\'94: chapbooks. My fifth chapter brings together these lines of thought, to ask what relationship \'93serious literature\'94 had to the \'93non-literary\'94, and especially to \'93sub-literary\'94 fiction, in the 1790s.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 My introduction will define the terms and concepts which the rest of the dissertation will use, paying particular attention to the parallel development of similar concerns in DH and non-DH fields. I will explicitly note that my DH methods align me with scholars in queer DH, and discuss some of the underlying assumptions of queer theory which shape my thinking: my aspiration is a non-extractive/anti-oppressive/less neo-lib or conservative or colonial \'a0DH approach to the \'91canon of 1790s\'92 literature. The introduction will also address why I define my window of interest as 1789-99, and who my scholarly interlocutors are in treating the 1790s as its own small literary period.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Vocabulary to be discussed:
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \'93Surface\'94 reading vs \'93distant\'94 reading (and, of course, their ties to close reading)\uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Popularity, canon, marginalization\uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 My preferred DH terminology around modelling, sensitivity, and fruitfulness\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The introduction will thus allow me to to deal directly with the way that other researchers in my fields (18thC and DH) have already tried to address my questions using different approaches, among them editing (new canons) or distant reading.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Chapter one takes up the eternal problem of archival gaps, and asks how we might interrogate or fill these gaps with computational methods. It asks how existing corpora of eighteenth century literature (mis)represent the 1790s. It begins with a task somewhere between a literature review and a scientific meta-analysis. My first goal will be to survey as broadly as possible the accessible mass holdings of eighteenth century texts (at least, the ones containing at least 100 works from the 1790s): simply putting all of this information in one place is useful as a lit review; adding a discussion of each archive\'92s selection criteria brings it into the realm of a meta-analysis. I expect to find systematic exclusions as archives \'93specialize\'94 from bibliographic data to facsimiles to transcripts. To contextualize these decisions about inclusion, I will research the history of how each corpus was formed. I will discuss the nature of their exclusions, and consider paths to ameliorate them. Then I will synthesize these disparate sources of texts and metadata, a substantial technical challenge, to see how the task may be accomplished, and to see what correlations between archives might illuminate the decade. I am particularly curious to see if even one text will appear in all corpora, and, if so, which one it will be. Whichever texts appear most persistently will form the basis of my \'93case study\'94 in this chapter.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Current materials acquired include:
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 51,965 bibliographic entries in the English Short Title Catalogue\uc0\u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 42,463 facsimiles in Eighteenth Century Collections Online\uc0\u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 10,832 facsimiles in 12 archives of Nineteenth Century Collections Online\uc0\u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 4,381 facsimiles with OCR transcription in the HathiTrust Digital Library\uc0\u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 466 XML files created by the ECCO Text Creation Partnership\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Also under consideration is Project Gutenberg (as the corpus everyone uses but no one likes to admit to using).
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 The first chapter thus introduces my decade of interest and the materials and perspectives I bring to bear on it, laying the foundation for my questions about canonization.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Chapter two introduces the driving stakes of the dissertation: it asks what long-term impact literary celebrity has on an author\'92s legacy, particularly for male versus female authors. I want to contextualize individual writers\'92 claims both to popularity (Hannah More) and to obscurity (William Wordsworth). I hypothesize that some level of celebrity assists male authors in achieving long-lasting legacies, but that celebrity is of no help to female authors, and may even harm the perceived \'93seriousness\'94 of their reputations. Influenced by Ashley J. Cross\'92s \'93From Lyrical Ballads to Lyrical Tales: Mary Robinson's Reputation and the Problem of Literary Debt,\'94 I am interested in exploring the careers of Mary Robinson and Samuel Taylor Coleridge as my \'93case study\'94 for this chapter. The technical challenge in this chapter lies in developing metrics for \'93popularity,\'94 \'93celebrity,\'94 and \'93legacy\'94 which are both fruitful and nuanced. In addition to reading the extensive literature grappling with these concerns for individual authors, I am currently thinking of ways to use mentions in reviews and news articles as an index of celebrity, and posthumous printings as an index of legacy. I may also add scholarly uptake (perhaps through the proxy of \'a0JSTOR articles, since JSTOR makes their archive accessible for experiments of this type) as a particular sub-type of \'93legacy.\'94
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Taking up David Brewer\'92s challenge in \'93Counting, Resonance, and Form\'94 to account for the increased \'93footprint\'94 of some texts beyond the moment of their original publication, my third chapter turns it attention to works originally written before the 1790s which nonetheless can be considered important \'931790s literature\'94 due to prominent reprinting (or, in the case of plays, re-staging). The chapter\'92s first question is one of discovery: what works resurface in this decade? Its next question is one of close-reading and historical context: what makes them seem newly relevant? As in my first chapter, the \'93case study\'94 texts for this chapter will emerge from my broader research. I am particularly eager to investigate timely re-stagings of plays, given the heightened ephemerality and thus timeliness of theatrical productions compared to print; my first step is to assemble a precise timeline of what was staged during the period. For printed works, some initial exploration suggests that Shakespeare, Oliver Goldsmith, Daniel Defoe, Samuel Johnson, or Milton are prominent in the English Short Title Catalogue and therefore might be of interest. I will need to determine what distinction, if any, I might want to draw between \'93canonical\'94 authors like Shakespeare and Milton, whose posthumous prominence is predictable, and any shorter-lived targeted reprintings that I might discover.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 My fourth chapter takes a different tack to focus on widely-read works that are often excluded from \'931790s literature\'94: chapbooks. These are usually excluded for not being \'93literature\'94 rather than not being \'931790s\'94 (though part of my inquiry will also be to determine how \'91out of date\'92 chapbooks would get before reaching their readers, and how this compares to book publishing). This print-historical chapter seeks to explore what is often seen as a \'93gap\'94 in William St. Clair\'92s history, to see how much we do know about the chapbook trade. I am particularly interested in pamphlets produced in response to other pamphlets, and whether there are geographic or social disjunctions in timeliness. This chapter will of course address Hannah More\'92s Cheap Repository Tracts, but I am equally curious about the works among which hers were sold. My \'93case study\'94 could trace the printing and circulation of one of More\'92s pamphlets and some of its fellow-travellers, as the foundation for a discussion of More\'92s hybrid literary forms. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 My fifth chapter builds on the work of Michael Gamer and others, \'a0describes the relationship of the Gothic to Romanticism. This chapter could be well-served by a stylometric approach, examining \'93Gothic vocabularies\'94 in full texts, to explore the reach of the Gothic. I am particularly interested in comparing the strategies used by writers who wish to use Gothic materials without \'93being\'94 Gothic (like Hannah More and William Wordsworth), those who accept being Gothic but without being \'93unserious\'94 (like Ann Radcliffe and Charlotte Smith), and those who embrace both the Gothic and its charge of unseriousness. Matthew Lewis may provide a useful case study for debates about \'93redeeming literary value\'94 in the Gothic.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 The dissertation as a whole, then, looks at the same large body of texts (works printed in England 1789-99) through several different, but interconnected, lenses. Only some of these lenses have specific computational projects in mind already, but all of them ask questions at a scale where I know I will want at least a spreadsheet, and quite probably much more, in order to bring together the many pieces of information that I examine. I expect some works and lines of thought to re-emerge in multiple chapters as I clarify the connections between my central concepts.}