{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \'94According to The Edinburgh Review (May 1823), \'91She never appeared in public, nor mingled in private society, but kept herself apart, like the sweet bird that sings its solitary notes, shrouded and unseen\'92. In fact, so little was known about Radcliffe\'92s life in the nineteenth century that Christina Rossetti abandoned a projected biography due to a lack of material\'94 (Facer).\
\'93We do know, however, that Ann Ward Radcliffe was born in Holborn, London, on 9 July 1764. She was the only child of William Ward, a haberdasher, and his wife Ann Oates. Her mother was relatively well connected. Oates\'92s cousin was Sir Richard Jebb, physician to George III, while her brother-in-law, Thomas Bentley, was the partner of Josiah Wedgwood. In 1772, William Ward moved with his wife and young daughter to Bath, where he would manage a china shop partly owned by Wedgwood. The young Ann was reasonably well educated\'85 In 1787 Ann married William Radcliffe, a hardworking Oxford law graduate who became part-editor and owner of The English Chronicle. He often came home late and in order to occupy her time, Radcliffe began to write, reading aloud the lines she had written during the day on his return.\'94\
\'93The Radcliffes\'92 marriage, though childless, appears to have been happy. In her Preface to A Journey made in the Summer of 1794 through Holland and the Western Frontiers of Germany (1795) Radcliffe touchingly referred to her husband as her \'91nearest relative and friend\'92 and acknowledged that the account of the journey had \'91been written so much from their mutual observation, that there would be a deception in permitting the book to appear, without some acknowledgement, which may distinguish it from works entirely her own\'92. The couple loved travelling together and used some of the money made from the publication of Radcliffe\'92s novels to finance their trips.\'94\cf2 \
\'93Like her novels, Radcliffe\'92s last years are shrouded in mystery. She was said to be depressed in 1797. By the end of her life, rumours abounded that she had become insane as a result of her Gothic fantasies and had been incarcerated in a Derbyshire asylum. The truth may never be known. Radcliffe had suffered from asthma for the past twelve years and her death on 7 February 1823 may well have been the result of a fatal attack. Talfourd\'92s Memoir of the Author, undoubtedly written under the instruction of Radcliffe\'92s husband, categorically denies that she was insane: \'91while some spoke of her as dead, and others represented her as afflicted with mental alienation, she was thankfully enjoying the choicest of blessings of life\'92. Her doctor issued a statement after her death, maintaining that she was in perfect mental health. Ann Radcliffe was buried in a vault in the Chapel of Ease belonging to St. George\'92s, Hanover Square, in Bayswater, London.\'94 (Facer)}