{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red0\green0\blue0;\red252\green111\blue207;
\red206\green187\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c20000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;
\cssrgb\c84700\c79200\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 The British Library\'92s opening of the English Short-Title Catalogue (ESTC) to free public access on the Web in the autumn of 2006 drew a grateful and eager response from the worldwide community of scholars and their universities. Similar sentiments echoed from a lower-profile network of antiquarian booksellers, who, mostly lacking institutional support, had to weigh the potential value of every search in the file against a unit charge (in the United States) of $2.28 plus a connection fee of $4.05 per hour. Whoever footed the bill, the ongoing expense of consulting ESTC was the cyber-equivalent of the hefty up-front payment needed to acquire its printed predecessors, STC and Wing. The freeing of ESTC, which combines those two components with a continuation up to and including 1800, now places in one location, for the consultation of anyone with internet access, the fullest and most up-to-date bibliographical account of \'91English\'92 printing (in the broadest sense) for its first 328 years. Within its scope it has no rival. At the same time it cannot be called \'91definitive\'92 in the same way that one might have been in the habit of considering STC and Wing. This is because of its peculiar evolution over thirty years as an online database \'97 always under construction, always exposed to damage from careless or ill-informed alterations, but always capable of improvement. Now that the British Library has made ESTC widely available, the time seems appropriate to explore some aspects of the relationship between this fluidity of content and the file\'92s status as an authoritative resource. (367)\
\
An increasingly common trend, I am sorry to report, is that more and more people do not want ESTC at all \'97 they want ECCO or EEBO. The younger generation of scholars in particular, lured by full-text images and ransacking the Web for illustrations for their books and articles, 
\b are using these utilities as de facto bibliographic databases. They find that the stripped-down records and simplified indexes are good enough for their purposes
\b0 . To a minority of them, the fact that other works, editions, and copies exist outside the Web is irrelevant, and perhaps even irritating. 
\b To use a metaphor, some people prefer to explore the world through books of photo- graphs with occasional schematic maps. ESTC, on the other hand, provides the equivalent of a detailed topographic map, but no pictures.
\b0  Such technical tools have limited appeal, even to some specialists; but if you want to thoroughly learn the lie of the land, you will need one, and the more complete and accurate the better. My comments below about how ESTC is used and perceived should be taken partly in the context of the differences and competition between these two markets \'97 the world of pictures and the world of descriptions. It may be that, in time, a d\'e9tente will be struck that will allow the unification in one database of the visual aspects of EEBO and ECCO with the full, constantly updated terrain-mapping power of ESTC \'97 and make it all free.6 As things stand, the opening of ESTC is not only a widely hailed boon to scholarship; it was a prerequisite for its survival on the internet-based playing field. (368)\
\
My discussion, therefore, concerns the needs of 
\b the specialist audience that has formed ESTC\'92s main constituency in the past and may reasonably be expected to continue as such: the explorers in the field who need detailed maps.
\b0  In my task of mediating between the file and its users, I find that these people approach early books with questions regarding one or both of two broad topics: intellectual content and physical characteristics, the latter including the location of copies. For every question I get of the first type, I probably get five that deal with the physicality of books. (369)\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Because ESTC is a bibliographical database rather than a catalogue, strictly speaking, its records describe groups of copies rather than specific copies.
\b0  In the great majority of cases each record describes a single edition. This rule is bent when certain separately planned marketing units can be identified within the edition, such as reissues,7 imprint variants,8 and large versus regular-paper copies.9 For the later eighteenth century, when reprints from standing type became more common, ESTC cataloguers have occasion- ally granularized down to the level of individual impressions.10 This is a pragmatic and reasonable response to more complex bibliographical situa- tions, and the theory need not concern us here. For the purpose of this discussion it is sufficient to refer to all of these categories as \'91editions\'92.\

\b ESTC\'92s most basic bibliographical function is to provide, for each edition, a description of the ideal copy
\b0 , meaning the most complete and correct manifestation of that edition as the printer and publisher intended it. (369)\
\
To each of these ideal descriptions are attached records of physical copies that match that description. As additional reports of copies arrive, it may be that the ideal description must change in response. For instance, the existence of a half-title may only emerge on the evidence of the seventh copy reported.
\b  A half-title would then be added to the description of the ideal copy, and the six previously matched physical copies will receive notes recording that they are imperfect in this respect.
\b0  When everything is working right, as it does in ESTC more often than not, the bibliographical description is completely accurate as far as it attempts to go, and variations in the matched copies can be reliably determined by the presence or absence of copy-specific notes.
\b  If anything happens to disturb the links between the description and its attached holdings, including errors committed in the course of creating the description, the record gets broken and starts telling lies about physical copies or, worse, about the ideal copy.
\b0  Broken records waste people\'92s time by sending them off after new editions that turn out to be old ones, and after complete copies that prove defective or even non- existent. They force users to rewrite parts of the records for their own use, but these corrections rarely get reported back to ESTC. If enough records get broken, the file containing them starts to devolve to the state of some- thing like OCLC\'92s WorldCat \'97 which is to say, a grab-bag mixing precision and approximation with little editorial oversight.\

\b In ESTC the matching process hinges on five points of identity: the title, as far as it is given by ESTC; the edition statement; the imprint, again as far as it is given by ESTC; the pagination; and the format.
\b0  (370)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \'93Complete title transcriptions allow each piece to describe itself more fully\'94 (370) \'85 \'93However, fuller transcriptions can also serve to undermine the reliability of the database.\'94 (371). 
\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
It is also difficult for a cataloguer to transcribe a long, pre-1701 title without committing a single typo. Using EEBO and ECCO before the eighteenth-century records were expanded, I checked the transcriptions in a random sample of 150 ESTC records, fifty each for the STC, Wing, and eighteenth-century periods.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \up8 12 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \up0 For imprint dates 1473\'961640, 52 per cent of the records contained discrepancies that should preclude matching; for the 1641\'961700 period, 28 per cent were unmatchable; while for the eighteenth century, only 10 per cent had errors.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \up8 13\'94 (371) 
\f1\fs22 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \up0 \'93In my original sample of fifty eighteenth-century records with a 10 per cent error rate, thirty-eight have subsequently received expanded transcriptions, and the error rate among those is now 29 per cent \'97 comparable to the Wing sample.\'94 (372)\
\'93This survey shows that the policy of giving complete titles, despite its numerous benefits, can actually have an adverse impact on the overall reliability of the file. On the purely mechanical level of reproducing title-page information, ESTC has adopted standards of description that tend to overshoot the ability of its cataloguers to meet them. Sometimes it is necessary to balance a zeal for exhaustiveness against the burden it imposes on human frailty, and the original planners of ESTC recognized this.\'94
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\up8 \
\
\'93This trend is somewhat exaggerated in my survey: because of patterns of production and survival, a random selection from a given period will tend to be chronologically weighted towards its later end.\'94 (371)\
\

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \up0 \'93The same human qualities that give rise to transcription errors by cataloguers allow their persistence through numerous proofreadings by matchers.\'94 (372)\
\'93this is another example where a bibliographical record has accumulated a convincing weight of testimony supporting an erroneous description.\'94 (373)\
\
\'93The STAR file, maintained at the ESTC editorial office in Riverside, California, has been functioning for years as a repository for revisions that are transmitted in periodic updates to the publicly accessible file. It also serves as a gateway for authorized libraries to make direct online matches of their holdings to ESTC. In consequence, though invisible and inaccessible to most of ESTC\'92s users, STAR contains the most up-to-date version of the file.\'94 (373) \cf4 \
\
\'93
\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
One useful innovation in STAR is an extension of the old verified/unverified/primary match types. These can be viewed in the public file, though only in the forbidding-looking \'91MARC tags\'92 display option. Contributor matches in STAR \'97 those made outside the ESTC offices \'97 are tagged as \'91web matches\'92, indicating that they were not vetted by ESTC staff. Because most outside contributors have received no training in the matching process from ESTC, it would be fair to say that these matches occupy a level of certainty somewhere between the \'91verified\'92 and \'91unverified\'92 levels.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \up10 17 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \up0 Matches derived from automated uploads from various outside databases are rather confusingly designated \'91catalogue matches\'92, and have a comparatively low level of reliability. These two new categories can be identified in the \'91MARC tags\'92 display, in field 852, subfield x, as letter codes W and C (supplementing the original V, U, and P tags).\cf4 \'94
\fs24 \cf3 \

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93
\b \cf2 The standard holdings display smoothes over these nuances; here both catalogue and web matches are translated to \'91verified\'92. This forces the file to make categorical statements of certainty even in obvious cases of considerable doubt.
\b0 \cf2 \'94 (374) \cf4 \
\
\cf2 \'93Like the DFONOTEs, the STAR annotation immediately ruptures the bond between the bibliographical record and its attached holdings. Contributor notes in STAR are invisible in the public display, so regular ESTC users will be unaware of this reported preliminary leaf; but if they could read the note, there are few who would bet money on which of the matched copies have the order-to-print leaf and which do not. The situation will get more tangled as more matches arrive.\'94 (374) 
\b \cf2 \'93There are now more than 9,100 of these new \'91annotations\'92 in STAR, affecting records from 1483 up to and including 1800.\'94
\b0 \cf2  (374)\
\'93
\b \cf2 These open construction sites are part of a trade-off for ESTC\'92s being able to claim virtual completeness within its declared scope
\b0 \cf2 , and there is no doubt that this completeness gives it a competitive boost vis-\'e0-vis ECCO and EEBO, at least for some audiences.\'94 (374)\
\'93With the probability (as my survey implies) that ESTC has a minimum of 80,000 records containing at least one error in description, a rigorous programme of rematches is clearly not feasible.\'94 (375)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 Do any of Tabor\'92s three proposals end up being adopted?\cf2 \cb1 \
\'93
\b \cf2 the lack of compulsion to declare a work \'91finished\'92 is a great advantage of the online environment.
\b0 \cf2  One expects ESTC to be a work in progress more or less in perpetuity, and that is a strength not a liability as long as net order in the file increases.\'94 (375)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'93Six years ago an article appeared with a provocative title: \'91Who Will Edit the ESTC?\'92.34 By now the answer should be obvious: ESTC will never be edited, in the sense of being anything like a finished, comprehensive, and consistently accurate catalogue.\'94 (384)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\'93Is it not                                         better to display all of these informal notes rather than presenting a                                         smoother fa\'e7ade to the public, showing some records whose accuracy or                                         completeness is known to be doubtful while concealing the evidence pending                                         eventual resolution? The answer depends on how one expects the file will be                                         used \'97 whether the market is the picture-book audience or the topographic                                        map audience.\'94 (376)\
\'93Bibliographers, like academics in any field, need to beware of making unqualified statements in cases where doubts exist.\'94 (376)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93Electronic records, like individual copies of books, 
\i habent sua fata
\i0 . The ESTC records contain clues to their own provenance that can help more experienced users to recognize what David McKitterick has called \'91nuances of responsibility\'92.\'94 
\fs24 (376)\
\'93The building of ESTC has relied from the start mostly on direct reports of holdings from whatever libraries could be persuaded to generate and donate them. As the last few of my examples demonstrate, however, a great deal of information of potential interest to ESTC passes through the biblio- graphical community every day from a variety of sources. Some of it is anecdotal, some appears in antiquarian book catalogues and scholarly publications. For various reasons ESTC has never been very efficient at tap- ping these sources. In the last part of this paper I will discuss how the file reflects this isolation, and what may be done to lower the barriers between it and the bibliographical community.\'94 (379)\
\'93 By omitting to consult even the most basic biblio- graphical journals, the ESTC editors allow gaps to widen between the file and current knowledge.\'94 (380)\
\'93Even if ESTC took advantage of these broader sources, there is no guaran- tee that scholarly findings would translate securely to catalogue format. My final example will show how the diffuse authorship of ESTC can undermine its control of more complex bibliographical problems.\'94 (380)\
p.384: The point of my last example is that some problems in ESTC are better understood, and would perhaps be better handled, by amateur bibliographers rather than professional cataloguers. By amateur bibliographers I mean generally teaching academics, usually in English or history, but occasionally booksellers or even the odd curator\
p.384: What these people want most from ESTC is simply for it to tell the truth about physical copies. All of them have new information that they would like to contribute to the file, and all of them can supply lists of errors and new locations. They are the best authorities we have.\
p.385: there is a widespread feeling among these potential contributors to the file that the staff already have their hands full, and that new information tends to go into a box, not to be seen again \'85 There is a need on the one hand and a willingness to provide on the other, but the supplies are not getting through. \
p.385: I have a proposal that can help bridge this gap without placing further commitments on ESTC staff. I believe the editors should consider allowing editorial access to the file to a few outside volunteers already trained in ESTC conventions. These volunteers would receive and assess new findings from the bibliographical community, and where appropriate incorporate them into ESTC.\
p.386: To maintain its authority, its editors need to accept fully ESTC\'92s responsibilities as a definitive bibliographical resource. They can do so by reaffirming a basic commitment to accuracy, by allowing users to view all the information they need to use the file wisely, and by opening a wider door to those who have drawn benefits from ESTC, and who now bear benefits in return.}