{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Of course, \'93
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction\'94 is a rather broad genre; literary scholars are more commonly interested in the history of subgenres like Gothic or detective 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction. Chapter 
\f1 \uc0\u57370 
\f0  zooms in on those concepts in order to explain how new methods can support a perspectival approach to genre. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e Aristotelian conception of genres as natu-ral literary kinds has given way over the last 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 fty years to a warier approach that treats genres as historically contingent institutions.\'94 (xiii) \
\
\'93In some cases, genres de
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ned by observers in di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent periods turn out to align better than their names might suggest. A model trained on nineteenth- century \'93scienti
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 c romance\'94 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 nds it easy to recognize contemporary \'93science 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction\'94 as a version of the same thing. In other cases, di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent perspectives turn out to be incompatible: the various traditions readers have called \'93Gothic,\'94 for instance, aren\'92t well recognized by a single model.\'94 (xv)\cf3 \
\
\'93Although debates about genre are as old as literary criticism itself, the term is still only loosely de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ned. Part of the reason is that genres look like di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent things at di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent points in the life of a text. Scholars of rhetoric, interested in the creation of works, tend to interpret genres as communicative actions.
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57350 
\f0 \cf3  Sociologists often em-phasize communities of readers.
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57347 
\f0 \cf3  Literary scholars, for their part, are preoccupied with the patterning of the texts themselves. Of course, all of these aspects of genre are connected. But it doesn\'92t follow that the histories of production, reception, and form are precisely the same. Does the persistence of science 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction fandom, for instance, imply that a single textual pattern has united works of science 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 c-tion themselves, from the pulp era to the present? Many scholars are skeptical. Some argue that \'93there is no such thing as science 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction\'94 in the texts themselves: the history of a genre is only the history of a community of readers, who may use the term \'93science 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction\'94 to describe radically di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent things in di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent decades.\'94 (34)\
\
\'93In this chapter, predictive models will become not quite a time machine but something almost as useful: a memory- wiping 
\f2 \cf3 fl
\f0 \cf3 ashbulb that allows us to strategically erase our knowledge of the future or past as needed.
\b  
\f1\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0\b \cf3 e computer knows nothing about literary history: it models only the evidence we give it.
\b0  
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 is 
\b useful blindness 
\b0 will allow us to provisionally bracket twentieth- century science 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction and to model Verne purely by contrasting him to his nineteenth- century contemporaries. 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 en we can com-pare those models to models of the twentieth- century genre and see how closely their predictions align. In the pages that follow, 
\b I will call this method \'93perspectival modeling.\'94
\b0  
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 is chapter will often literally be modeling the perspectives of di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent groups of readers, but the phrase could also apply more broadly to any strategy that gets leverage on cultural history by comparing mod-els trained on di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent subsets of the evidence. 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e end of this chapter will assess the pace of change, for instance, by comparing models trained on di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent periods.\'94 (35)\
\'93We of-ten imagine numbers as an objective yardstick\'97 something like sentence length or linguistic entropy that can become a 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 xed reference point for the 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 \cf3 ux of history. 
\b A supervised model, by contrast, provides only a circular sort of evidence: it describes one set of texts through their relation to another.
\b0 But then, circularity has long been recognized as the inherent condition of historical interpretation.\'94 (36)\
\'93When researchers try to step outside history to 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nd a 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 xed met-ric like sentence length, they often end up creating a measure-ment whose signi
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 cance is hard to de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ne. Human signi
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 cance is created only by human history\'94 (37)\
\
\'93
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e models of genre created in this chapter will rely on tex-tual evidence. But that doesn\'92t force us to assume that genres are fundamentally textual patterns. As I began by noting, genres wear several di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent faces: they are practices of literary produc-tion, horizons of readerly expectation, and textual templates, all at once. If I had to choose one of those three faces as primary, I would lean toward emphasizing readers\'92 expectations. So this chapter will initially de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ne a \'93genre\'94 as a group of books recog-nized by some speci
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 c, historically situated group of readers\'94 \'85 \'93Textual similarity will enter this chap-ter\'92s argument only because it turns out that texts can in fact be used to predict readers\'92 responses.\'94 (38)\
\
What Story Should We Expect to Find?\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 What Story Should We Expect to Find?
\b0 \
\'93Since literary scholars adhere to radically di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent theories of genre, we might expect several di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent outcomes for this in-quiry. If Mark Bould and Sherryl Vint are right that \'93there is no such thing\'94 as genre in the text itself\'97 only a contested set of expectations de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ned and rede
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ned by marketing\'97 then 
\b we might expect textual models of genre simply to fail
\b0 . If Franco Moretti is right that genre is a generational phenomenon, 
\b we might expect textual models to be stable only for twenty or thirty years
\b0 . Science 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction, in particular, seems likely to be mutable, since submarines and ray guns are constantly replaced by new wonders of tomorrow. It is not self- evident that the textual pat-terns in science 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction would persist for more than a few decades.On the other hand, we might just as reasonably expect to 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nd a di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent pattern. With genre- speci
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 c pulp magazines (like Amazing Stories) and imprints (like Harlequin), twentieth- century genres achieved an institutional solidity that had rarely / been seen before. Histories of genre often emphasize the gradual consolidation of genre conventions in the 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 rst half of the twen-tieth century. Scholars of the detective story point to Ronald Knox\'92s so- called Decalogue (
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57369 \u57368 \u57370 \u57368 
\f0 \cf3 ) of rules for writers as a crys-tallizing moment.
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57488 
\f0 \cf3  For other genres the process of consolidation is thought to have taken even longer. Gary K. Wolfe suggests that \'93the science 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction novel persistently failed to cohere as a genre\'94 until Pocket Books gave it institutional form in the 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57369 \u57368 \u57367 \u57373 
\f0 \cf3 s.
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57504 
\f0 \cf3  If this account of literary history is correct, 
\b we might expect to 
\f1\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0\b \cf3 nd not a succession of generational phases but a steady hardening of boundaries, producing genres that are much more clearly distinct
\b0  by the middle of the twentieth century than at its outset. Frankly, this is what I expected to 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nd when I began the project.\'94 (38-9)\
"
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e story that actually emerged from this experiment didn\'92t line up very neatly with either of the patterns we might have expected to 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nd: generational succession or gradual consolida-tion. I see little evidence of the generational waves that Moretti\'92s theory would predict. In fact, it isn\'92t even true that books in a chronologically focused genre (like \'93the sensation novel, 
\f2 \cf3 1860
\f0 \cf3 \'96 
\f2 \cf3 1880
\f0 \cf3 \'94) necessarily resemble each other more closely than books spread out across a long timeline. \'85 But I also haven\'92t found much evidence for the story of gradual consolidation that I expected to 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nd. Although it is clearly true that the publishing institutions governing genre developed grad-ually, it appears I was wrong to expect that the textual di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erences between genres would develop in the same gradual way.\'94 (40)\
\'93
\b textual patterns don\'92t have to develop as gradually as institutions do.
\b0  \'85 Instead of being more volatile than communities of reception, textual patterns turn out to be, if anything, more durable.\'94 (40)\
\
\'93 I have gathered lists of titles as-signed to a genre in eighteen di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent sites of reception.
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57350 \u57517 
\f0 \cf3  Some of these lists re
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 \cf3 ect recent scholarly opinion; some were shaped by nineteenth- century reviewers; others re
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 \cf3 ect the practices of many di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent library catalogers over a long period of time. Al-though each list de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nes its object slightly di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erently, they can be loosely arranged around three master categories whose coher-ence I propose to test: detective 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction (or \'93mystery\'94 or \'93crime\'94 or \'93Newgate\'94 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction), science 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction (also de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ned in a variety of ways), and the Gothic. (It is debatable whether the Gothic, writ large, is a genre at all\'97 but that\'92s what makes it an interesting case.)\'94 (39)\
For full metadata, see an online repository: Ted Underwood, \'93Data and Code to Support Distant Horizons,\'94 Zenodo,  http:// doi .org /
\f2 \cf3 10
\f0 \cf3  .
\f2 \cf3 5281
\f0 \cf3  /zenodo .
\f2 \cf3 1206317
\f0 \cf3 .\
\
\'93 it increasingly seems that a genre is not a single ob-ject we can observe and describe. It may instead be a mutable set of relations between works that are linked in di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent ways and resemble each other to di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent degree
\b s. A problem like this requires a methodology that is cautious about ontological as-sumptions and patient with details. 
\b0 Predictive modeling 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ts the bill.\'94 (41)\
\'93
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e point of machine learning in proj-ects like these is not primarily to enlarge the number of books we consider but
\b  to register and compare blurry family resemblances
\b0  that might be di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57485 
\f0 \cf3 cult to de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ne verbally without reductiveness. We can dispense with 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 xed de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nitions and base the study of genre only on the practices of historically situated actors\'97 but still produce models of genre substantive enough to compare and contrast. Here, and in many similar cases, computation can help scholars 
\b acknowledge the complexity of culture without collapsing the conversation into an empty consensus that all cultural phenomena are more or less slippery and elusive. Which genres turn out to be especially mutable or relatively stable?
\b0 \'94 (42) - discussing Hoyt Long and Richard Jean So on haiku\
\'93Since no causal power is ascribed to variables in a predictive model, the particular features we use to model genres are not all- important.\'94 (42)\
\'93Moreover, if all the models in this chapter could be improved by 
\f2 \cf3 1%
\f0 \cf3 , it would make no di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erence to the argument. What mat-ter are the relative strengths of the boundaries between di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent groups of texts. Which generic groupings are easier or harder to detect? Making our models as accurate as possible is worth doing only because it\'92s a reassuring sign that we haven\'92t left evidence on the table that would have changed those rankings.\'94 (43)\
\
\'93
\b  predictive models are rather like human beings: they can always 
\f1\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0\b \cf3 nd some ways two sets of works are similar and other ways they di
\f1\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0\b \cf3 er.
\b0  If we want to know whether detective 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 c-tion and science 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction can be lumped together, no single model will answer the question. Instead, we need to pose a four- sided question that allows us to ask whether the di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erences de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ning one genre are parallel to the di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erences that de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ne another. Do detective stories di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 er from other works of 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction in the same way that science 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 ers?\'94 (46)\
\'93To answer this question, one can train a model on the contrast between detective 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction and a randomly selected background and then ask the same model to distinguish works of science 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction from the same background. As we might expect, this model fails utterly: it\'92s right less than half of the time. Although these two genres have a few things in common (theories and laboratories, for instance), their common elements seem not to be the features that most saliently de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ne / them.\'94 (46-7)\
\
\'93It is of course possible that a single exhibition catalog of detec-tive 
\f2 \cf3 fi
\f0 \cf3 ction (limited to volumes before 
\f2 \cf3 1941
\f0 \cf3 ) will create a picture of the genre that diverges substantially from postwar volumes cataloged by many di
\f2 \cf3 ff
\f0 \cf3 erent hands. But that\'92s exactly the kind of question statistical models allow us to test. Modeling just the eighty- eight volumes from the Indiana exhibition that I was able to obtain digitally, we have a rather high level of accuracy, 
\f2 \cf3 93
\f0 \cf3 .
\f2 \cf3 2%
\f0 \cf3 . 
\f2 \cf3 Th
\f0 \cf3 e 
\f2 \cf3 194
\f0 \cf3  volumes that have Library of Congress genre tags are more of a mixed bag and can only be recognized 
\f2 \cf3 91
\f0 \cf3 .
\f2 \cf3 0%
\f0 \cf3  of the time. If we combine both sets, we have 
\f2 \cf3 266
\f0 \cf3  volumes (since 
\f2 \cf3 16
\f0 \cf3  were in both groups) that can be recognized with 
\f2 \cf3 93
\f0 \cf3 .
\f2 \cf3 4%
\f0 \cf3  accuracy. So mixing groups selected in di
\f2 \cf3 ff
\f0 \cf3 erent ways doesn\'92t reduce ac-curacy; it\'92s a compromise that \'93levels upward.\'94\'94 (48)\
\'93But as I have mentioned, algorithmic models can be very good at 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nding common elements that link a group of works. A bet-ter way of comparing two human de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nitions of genre is to train a model on one reader\'92s judgments and then ask it to predict judgments made by a di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent reader. For instance, when we ask a model trained on the Library of Congress detective 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction to distinguish the Indiana exhibition from a random background and vice versa, we still get 
\f2 \cf3 85%
\f0 \cf3  accuracy on average. 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 at\'92s the real con
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 rmation that we\'92re looking at largely congruent de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nitions of the detective story.\'94\
\
\'93In short, the models created by machine learning are not mysterious black boxes: it is quite possible to crack them open and ask how they work. But they work so well, in part, because they are under no obligation to condense the world into a crisp de
\f2 \cf3 fi
\f0 \cf3 nition. 
\b A model of a complex, overdetermined concept is likely to be just as overdetermined itself
\b0 . Working with a light touch, a critic who has read a few detective stories can use pre-dictive features to tease out insights (the absence of children in these stories, for instance, is an interesting dog that didn\'92t bark). But it would be a mistake to imagine that a predictive model can quickly resolve arguments about the essential features of a genre. For that kind of condensing, prioritizing work, we still need critical debate.\'94 (49)\
\
\'93
\f2 \cf3 Th
\f0 \cf3 e model is very con
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 dent about most of the nineteenth-  and twentieth- century volumes categorized as detective 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction. But it has di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57485 
\f0 \cf3 culty recognizing Newgate and sensation novels as members of the same set, even though it has been trained on a sample that includes them and has not been given any indication that they are di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent from other detective stories. By contrast, Edgar Allan Poe\'92s three short stories from the 
\f2 \cf3 1840
\f0 \cf3 s seem entirely consonant with later de
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nitions of the genre. 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e patterns that link Sue Grafton to Arthur Conan Doyle extend backward all the way to Poe\'97 but not much farther. In short, 
\b quantitative methods are not inherently biased to-ward continuity or discontinuity. When cultural forms do change suddenly, a predictive model can recognize the break without being speci
\f1\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0\b \cf3 cally instructed to do so
\b0 . \'94 (52)\
\'93A model of 
\f2 \cf3 287 
\f0 \cf3 volumes puts us in a position to con
\f2 \cf3 fi
\f0 \cf3 rm that the similarities between works of detective 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction are really becoming looser, overall, in the 
\f2 \cf3 1990
\f0 \cf3 s than they were in the 
\f2 \cf3 1920
\f0 \cf3 s or 
\f2 \cf3 1930
\f0 \cf3 s.\'94 (52)\
\
THE GOTHIC\
\'93
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e history of Gothic 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction creates, appropriately, a mystery about ancestral 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 gures that haunt their descendants only as am-biguous traces. 
\b Critics seem fairly con
\f2\b0 \cf3 fi
\f0\b \cf3 dent that the Gothic novel was a coherent phenomenon in Britain from 
\f2\b0 \cf3 1760
\f0\b \cf3  to perhaps 
\f2\b0 \cf3 1830
\f0\b \cf3 . But as we move further into the nineteenth century, it becomes less and less clear whether the Gothic remains a continuous tradition
\b0 .\'94 (53)\
\
Not sure about these methods: \'93Since we have good reasons to wonder whether \'93the Gothic\'94 writ large is a strongly uni
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ed tradition, it was particularly im-portant in this case to compare di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent sources of testimony. Before 
\f2 \cf3 1840
\f0 \cf3  I relied heavily on the Stanford Literary Lab\'92s list of Gothic 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction; after 
\f2 \cf3 1840
\f0 \cf3  I relied on the Library of Congress genre tags associated with \'93horror\'94 or the \'93ghost story.\'94 But I also collected a set of works mentioned in 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e Gothic, a Blackwell guide edited by David Punter and Glennis Byron (
\f2 \cf3 2004
\f0 \cf3 ), which traces a Gothic tradition all the way from Horace Walpole to Brett Easton Ellis, linked through a surprising range of inter-mediary 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 gures that includes Emily Bront\'eb, Henry James, and H. P. Lovecraft.\'94\
More accurate with the smaller samples. \'93
\f2 \cf3 Th
\f0 \cf3 e growing shakiness of this Gothic edi
\f2 \cf3 fi
\f0 \cf3 ce as samples grow larger 
\b betrays a weakness somewhere in its foundation.
\b0  In modeling a homogenous group of works, accuracy ordinarily increases as one gathers more data. \'94 (54)\
\'93Declining accuracy suggests that 
\b our di
\f2\b0 \cf3 ff
\f0\b \cf3 erent sources are describing heterogenous things.
\b0  We can con
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 rm this using the method of mutual recognition. A model trained on Romantic- era Gothic works recognizes ghost stories only weakly and vice versa (
\f2 \cf3 69
\f0 \cf3 .
\f2 \cf3 8%
\f0 \cf3 ); ghost stories are even less similar to twentieth- century horror (
\f2 \cf3 67
\f0 \cf3 .
\f2 \cf3 8%
\f0 \cf3 ). If one compares twentieth-century horror directly to the Romantic- era Gothic, there is hardly any textual similarity at all (
\f2 \cf3 51
\f0 \cf3 .
\f2 \cf3 0%
\f0 \cf3 ). I don\'92t expect this pattern to surprise many readers. \'85 
\b Establishing that the Gothic falls apart is a test less of the Gothic than of our method.
\b0  A method that didn\'92t recog-nize hard cases would be hard to trust about others!\'94\
His explanation: \'93the genre\'92s reliance on several distinct thematic prem-ises: ghost stories, Romantic- era tales of incarceration and es-cape (often mixed with a courtship plot), and twentieth- century horror. Each of these things is easier to model on its own than in combination with the others. Detective 
\f2 \cf3 fi
\f0 \cf3 ction is not internally divided in quite the same way.\'94 (55) Even though you can tell apart hardboiled detective fiction from cozy mysteries, they group together in larger contexts \'97 they \'93are never easier to model on their own than in combination\'94 (55).\
\
\'93It is not safe to assume that all genres change at the same pace or that the existence of distinct subgenres will necessarily weaken a parent category. 
\b In the case of the Gothic, the forces of drift and division do work against coalescence. But even so, the term names a real phenomenon
\b0 : a group of texts that can be recognized with 
\f2 \cf3 81%
\f0 \cf3  accuracy over a span of 
\f2 \cf3 240
\f0 \cf3  years can hardly be called inchoate. 
\b Critics sometimes acknowledge the contrast with more tightly uni
\f2\b0 \cf3 fi
\f0\b \cf3 ed literary groups by calling the Gothic a mode rather than a genre.
\b0  
\f2 \cf3 Th
\f0 \cf3 e term is fair enough, but like many terminological distinctions, it 
\b substitutes a crisp binary division for a more muddled reality
\b0 .\'94 (56)\cf4 \
\
P 57 - starts third example, sci fi, from the premise that it\'92s \'93not intuitively clear whether we should expect science 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction to hold together over long timelines, like detective 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction, or fall apart like the Gothic.\'94 (57)\
He says \'93I drew on several di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent sources for that period\'94 and refers to them as \'93 all these bibliographic sources\'94 but it seems to only be two bibliographies?? (57)\
Sci fi, unlike detective fiction, doesn\'92t seem to change much on cohesion as a genre \'97 "the early his-tory of this genre looks incoherent to our retrospective gaze for parochial, presentist reasons\'94 (60)\
\'93One could, admittedly, object that my list of nineteenth- century scienti
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 c romances comes mostly from twentieth- century histories of science 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction. Perhaps this group of texts is only co-herent because it was selected, tacitly, to provide a set of precur-sors for a more strongly uni
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ed genre? 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 is is a fair objection.\'94 (60) His counter: \'93I haven\'92t found a bibliography or reading list that I could use as strictly contem-porary evidence for the boundaries of the genre.\'94 (60) Also: \'93it is still signi
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 cant that the concept coheres on a textual level. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 ere is no way to construct the same kind of retrospective coherence for the Gothic.\'94 (61)\
\
He does find a lot of change around the 1940s\
\'93what kind of change are we detecting? 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 is doesn\'92t have to be a mysterious question; there are many ways to open the so- called black box of machine learning and 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 nd answers. For instance, one way to locate change is to ask which later books are hard for models trained on an earlier period to recognize. Since models assign each book a probability of being science 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction, we can simply compare the probabilities assigned by models trained on di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent periods. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 is produces a measure of historical parallax or, so to speak, of surprise.\'94 (62)}