{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Chapter two begins by examining corpora of eighteenth-century literature through the same critical lens by which anthologies and classroom teaching are often scrutinized. I make the case that digital archives can implicitly shape scholarly research, and begin the process of revealing and interrogating their structural assumptions. The chapter begins with a task somewhere between a literature review and a scientific meta-analysis. My first goal will be to survey as broadly as possible the accessible mass holdings of digital eighteenth-century texts (all those containing at least 100 works from the 1790s). I begin by simply attempting to establish how many titles each database includes from each year, 1789-99. Answering this basic demographic question will also illustrate the nature of each resource\'92s data structures, and allow the first comparisons between them. I am particularly interested to see which resources have \'91spikes\'92 in 1790 and 1795, years which are often assigned to works of uncertain date. I will also check each database for my four key authors. For each author I compile, based largely on non-digital resources, a list of every edition of every work that they published during this decade. Manually comparing each digital resource against this comprehensive list allows me to spot-check the completeness and accuracy of the corpus. I am particularly interested to see which works by each author are most widely distributed, and how successfully each corpus handles ambiguities of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1F1CA1FE-6D14-484F-BF35-F27BAF164ADD"}}{\fldrslt authorship.}} As I compare corpora to each other, I expect to find systematic exclusions where archives are investing more labour in their holdings, with narrower selections as they move from bibliographic data to facsimiles to scholarly transcripts. To contextualize these decisions about inclusion, I research the history of how each corpus was formed. As part of this process, I also discuss and theorize the difficulties involved in researching these histories: drawing on, for example, my experience with HathiTrust\'92s codebase, I critique the assumption that digital resources make all information transparent and accessible. Returning to the actual contents of each archive, I discuss the nature of the works they do not contain.  The second chapter thus establishes the contents and limitations of the corpora which will drive my argument in chapter three, and will shape the later phases of my research in chapters four and five.}