{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 A core object of study for this dissertation, then, is the makeup and history of contemporary digital databases.\cf3  \cf0 Eighteenth century materials of various kinds have been collected in many digital archives, of very different scopes. I will draw materials from the English Short-Title Catalogue (ESTC), Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO), the ECCO Text Creation Partnership corpus (ECCO-TCP), Google Books, Project Gutenberg\cf3  and \cf0 HathiTrust. \cf2 My examination of these six databases will, of necessity, examine a \'91time capsule\'92 of their holdings at a particular moment; the sources of my data, and my procedures for working with them, are described in more detail in Appendix B (\'93Methodology\'94). \cf0 The \cf2 databases\cf0  vary from each other in terms of two main qualities: their size, and their reputation. The reputation of any given digital resource is shaped largely, I argue, by its ability to signal \'91rigour\'92 in its collection practices. Several \cf2 databases\cf0  of different sizes have established reputations of seriousness, and, correspondingly, cultural capital within scholarly communities.\cf2  The databases that I will examine at length form two groupings of three each, to explore two sets of related concepts. The first set consists of ESTC, ECCO, and ECCO-TCP, all of which follow the same rigorous collection practices at different scales. The second set consists of Google Books, HathiTrust, and Project Gutenberg, which follow very different collection practices while sharing a dubious scholarly reputation.}