{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 It is a common critique of Digital Humanities research that computational methods, or computational evidence, go hand in hand with claims of scientific, empirical, objective truth. Johanna Drucker\'92s influential \'93Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display,\'94 for example, suggests that even by drawing a bar chart or line graph like those which appear in scientific journal articles, a humanities scholar goes astray. Drucker introduces a valuable contrast between \'93data\'94 (an essentially imaginary phenomenon, of unmediated true information which a realist, empiricist researcher can accept as \'93given\'94) and her term \'93capta\'94 (the true form of all data, partial and ambiguous information, \'93captured\'94 and constructed for a particular researcher\'92s purpose). Drucker\'92s distinction between data and capta is widely cited, especially by DH researchers who then go on to refer to their capta as data throughout. Drucker\'92s core argument has, essentially, two parts:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\li720\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 ...the basic categories of supposedly quantitative information, the fundamental parameters of chart production, are already interpreted expressions. But they do not present themselves as categories of interpretation, riven with ambiguity and uncertainty, because of the representational force of the visualization as a \'93picture\'94 of \'93data\'94. (12)
\fs22 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 The first claim, that \'93data\'94 is always already interpreted, is one that continues to animate and trouble DH scholarship. The second claim, that the primary site at which capta masquerade as data is through visualization, has received less uptake. In chapter two, as I produce visualizations of the role of women\'92s writing in 1790s literature, I will return to Drucker and the role of data visualization in humanist research. It is certainly possible for visualizations to disguise the constructed nature of the underlying information, but, as Katherine Bode has recently shown in detail, the illusion of unmediated truth in computational research runs deeper than visual display.}