{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa200

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \'a0A crisis is provoked when Lord Elmwoodarrives at Elmwood House unexpectedly and Matilda accidentally crosses herfather's path. \'93She had felt something like affright before she sawhim,\'94 the passage reads,\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340

\fs30\fsmilli15400 \cf2 but her reason told her she had nothing to fear, as he was faraway. \'97 But now the appearance of a stranger whom she had never beforeseen; an air of authority in his looks as well as in the sound of his steps; aresemblance to the portrait she had seen of him; a start of astonishment whichhe gave on beholding her; but above all-her fears confirmed her it was him.-Shegave a scream of terror \'97 put out her trembling hands to catch thebalustrades on the stairs for support \'97 missed them \'97 and fellmotionless into her father's arms.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa200
\cf2 He caught her, as by that impulse hewould have caught any other person falling for want of aid. \'97 Yet when hefound her in his arms, he still held her there-gazed on her attentively \'97and once pressed her to his bosom.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340
\cf2 \cb3 At length, trying to escape the snare into which he had been led, he wasgoing to leave her on the spot where she fell, when her eyes opened and sheuttered, \'93Save me.\'94 \'97 Her voice unmanned him. \'97 Hislong-restrained tears now burst forth \'97 and seeing her relapsing into theswoon again, he cried out eagerly to recall her. \'97 Her name did nothowever come to his recollection-nor any name but this \'97 \'93Miss Milner\'97 Dear Miss Milner."\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 The scene draws on conventions of sentimental literature, thereby heighteningthe effect of the suppression of natural emotion that follows. Lord Elmwoodunloads his fair burden in the arms of a passing servant, whom he charges withbanishing her from the house, leaving her unprotected and vulnerable to LordMargrave, a predatory rake. Lord Elmwood eventually realizes his fault and thetwo are reconciled when he is forced to rescue his daughter from LordMargrave's abduction.}