{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c20000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93I have here followed the authors in counting playbooks rather than plays\'94 (34)\
\'93In the endnote itself I used the index totals only as numbers that reflect the increasing production\'94 (35)\
\'93Some items can be eliminated immediately because in the actual entries (and sometimes in the index itself ) they are identified as not really belonging in STC. Others, because of multiple, false, or misprinted dates, are indexed under two or more years, only one of which can be counted as \'93the right one\'94 for that book. The authors may have eliminated at least some of these duplications but decline to say so. They do, however, point out that many numbered STC entries refer only to variants or reissues rather than to distinct editions and should be excluded. By their count these exclusions lower the total for those years by about 8 percent; my figure for the whole of 1583\'961640 is fractionally higher at 8.5 percent.\'94 (35)\
\'93What makes it necessary to set aside many official publications\'97together with advertisements, blank forms, privately printed petitions, and the like\'97is not the commonplace circumstances of their printing but the more unusual fact that they were not intended to be sold wholesale to booksellers for resale to the general public.\'94 \'93The few books printed for their authors can be reinstated without delay, because they differ from other speculative books only in that the speculators were not usually free of the Stationers\'92 Company.\'94 \'93Surreptitious books (both Catholic and Puritan) differ in that profit was rarely the sole motive of whoever financed the printing. But it is quite unhistorical to imagine that such books were primarily intended to be given away.\'94 \'93Some were sold privately to co-religionists by people outside the regular book trade; others under the counter by sympathetic booksellers. But anyone who doubts that recusant books were marketed in commercial quantities should contemplate The Manual of Prayers (STC 17263\'9617278.1), which went through twelve known editions in twenty-five years and another seventeen before 1641.\'94 \'93
\b The Manual of Prayers was therefore far more popular than any printed play.
\b0 \'94 (36) \'97 
\b I think he is overly simplistic about popularity
\b0  here\
\'93Up to this point the authors\'92 methodology has been generally straightforward and sensible. Start with the best-available raw numbers (STC), eliminate items that ought to be disqualified, and what remains should be the best-available approximation to the whole market. Divide by the number of playbooks, and the quotient should be the best-available approximation to their market share. I cannot fault either the approach or the results (provided that they are considered in toto rather than partially).\'94 (37)\
\'93
\b four distinct arguments are offered, three of them included in the blanket claim that \'93patented books were produced under fundamentally different economic conditions than other books\'94
\b0  (17). Two of those three are factually wrong.\'94 (38) \'97 this fight mostly seems to be about details that don't impact the 1790s\
\'93virtually all the books protected by patent were works that had already been printed.15 It is true that no new publisher could compete for those titles, but that hardly amounted to \'93fundamentally different economic conditions than other books.\'94 Most unpatented books that had been legally printed belonged to somebody\'94 \'93\'93many copies of these books were sold to captive audiences, such as students, lawyers, or parish churches\'94 (17). What this seems to imply is that purchases made by the wrong people or institutions, or for the wrong reasons (to study, or to use during church service), can be dismissed as reflecting the Wrong Sort of Demand\'94 (39) \
\'93
\b Market share in the real world is not always greatly affected by what publishers (sometimes wrongly) think will sell, and is not determined at all by what academics subsequently choose to study. What counts is what the customers actually buy
\b0 .\'94 (40)\
\'93It would have remained exactly the same book and would have been printed no less often\'97but the authors would not have been able to exclude it. So just how much can their distinction between \'93monopolistic\'94 and other books really signify?\'94 \'93Nobody had to buy the book\'94 \'93People chose to buy it because they wanted to read, re-read, and sing its contents, not because some monopolist coerced them. Any serious discussion of which books sold best in early modern Britain would have to recognize that several of the most outstandingly popular were patented.\'94 \'93
\b any definition of popular that failed to include the Metrical Psalms\'97overwhelmingly the best-selling English book in both the sixteenth and the seventeenth centuries\'97would be so wide of the mark as to render the word meaningless
\b0 .\'94 (41) \'97 
\b fundamentally, Farmer & Lesser 
\i don\'92t
\i0  claim that these plays were popular. They claim only that they were sound financial investments.\

\b0 \'93the authors ignore an elementary arithmetical truism that completely vitiates their main conclusion. Simply put, 
\b a small percentage of a large number can be much bigger than a large percentage of a small number
\b0 .\'94 \'93The stubby column for sermon-books in figure 4 represents more than twice as many actual printed editions as does the imposing tower for the allegedly more popular playbooks. If reprinting denotes popularity, what should we conclude from the uncontested fact that more than twice as many sermon-books as playbooks went into at least a second edition?\'94 \'93During that period the printers printed, the publishers wholesaled, and the customers in bookshops freely chose to buy more than three times as many sermon-books as playbooks.\'94 \'93For my part I like to ensure that the valleys are not neglected, so I shall repeat that there were five years in which no playbooks were printed at all. But only once did the number of sermon-books drop below double figures (seven, in 1601).\'94 (43) \'97 I\'92m not wholly persuaded: if you're holding a book, and you want to know, "what are the odds that this book will reach a second edition?", it seems like Tomkis is a better bet than Shakey\
\
\'93the authors are perfectly well aware of the facts and acknowledge that,\'93judging by market share, sermons do indeed appear to have been more popular than playbooks\'94 (21). I am at a loss to understand how they nevertheless concluded that \'93sermons were reprinted much less frequently than were professional plays\'94 (21)\'94 \'93Of the playbooks of Edward Sharpham and of Thomas Tomkis, 100 percent reached third editions inside twenty years, but only 35 percent of Shakespeare\'92s fared as well. By the authors\'92 logic, Sharpham and Tomkis must have been far more popular\'97even though each man\'92s 100 percent (two out of two) was greatly outsold by Shakespeare\'92s 35 percent (eight out of twenty-three). Comparing percentages without regard to the quantities they represent can lead to absurd conclusions.\'94 (44)\
\'93More pertinently for the stationers, no more than 107 (32.2 percent), and perhaps only 104 (31.3 percent), were reprinted during the lifetimes of their first publishers\'94 (45)\
\'93should certainly be taken into account by anyone discussing those 785 publishers and arguing that they \'93must have found [playbooks] attractive investments.\'94\'94 (46) \'97 it's amazing that it's SO FEW publishers\
\'93The figures also show that those playbooks account for 2.77 percent of the best-available approximation to the total market. 
\b Whether that is 
\i as much as
\i0  2.77 percent or 
\i a mere
\i0  2.77 percent depends on one\'92s outlook
\b0 \'94 (46)\
\'93The 
\i apparent
\i0  share could be artificially raised by adopting the methods by which the modern book trade constructs \'93top ten\'94 lists that include only recently-published books of a specified kind.\'94\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf3 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Anyone disinclined to believe that 
\b early modern readers could really have found books of divinity more desirable than Shakespeare quartos
\b0  can easily check: choose a year at random and look up all the numbers listed for it in the STC chronological index (an exercise that should be required of every student beginning graduate work on early modern literature). No calculator will be needed to determine what pre- dominates: the vast quantity of religious material is impossible to overlook. It is not just the Bibles, testaments, liturgies, and psalters; not just the sermons and cate- chism after catechism\'97it is that even they are outnumbered by an interminable parade of admonitions, animadversions, annotations, answers, apologies, caveats, commentaries, conclusions, confutations, defences, dialogues, discourses, exhorta- tions, explications, expositions, guides, institutions, instructions, lectures, manuals, meditations, observations, paraphrases, prayers, preparatives, propositions, ques- tions, tractates, and (especially) treatises. Anyone unconvinced that 
\b the contents of a real bookshop could possibly have resembled those of STC
\b0  should then hunt play- books in the 1616 inventory of the shop of John Foster of York.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up10 29 
\b\fs32 \up0 Customers in early modern bookshops chose to spend far more of their money on religious books than they did on playbooks and other \'93literary\'94 publications
\b0 . That is a fact of life, and it is pointless to try to evade it by juggling numbers or inventing specious reasons why certain best-sellers (such as Bibles, prayerbooks, or the Metrical Psalms) should not really count as books. 
\b Unless we recognize and accept just how massively important godly books were to early modern readers, we will never fully understand the background of the dramatic literature we now value so much more than they did. (7)
\b0\fs24 \cb1 \

\fs32 \cb4 In the concluding paragraph of \'93Publication\'94 I said that \'93I have . . . done what I can to make it difficult for future theorists to evade one inescapable fact about print- ed plays\'97namely, that they were not the best-selling moneyspinners that so many commentators have evidently believed they should have been.\'94
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up10 30 
\fs32 \up0 It seems that I had not done quite enough. Perhaps this paper will help to block any remaining escape routes. (47)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93I also flagged and coded all items that in my judgment were not printed for sale in bookshops.\'94 (49)\
\'93The titles are often little help: without being told, who would recognize The White Devil (STC 131), The King\'92s Shoe (STC 16686), or A Royal Edict for Military Exercises (STC 6313) as sermons, or Bowels Opened (STC 22476) as a collection of twenty?\'94 (49)\
\'93Other than asking it to count the records for 1640, 1641, and 1642, I have not consulted ESTC for this study. Since I criticized the inadequacies of its early modern records five years ago, there have been changes.\'94 (49) \'97 \'93Peter W. M. Blayney, untitled letter, The Library: The Transactions of the Bibliographical Society, 7th ser., 1 (2000): 72\'9674.\'94\
\'93In the table I have deliberately falsified the numbers for 1641\'9642.\'94 (50) \'93Anyone who thinks it would have been more appropriate to treat the nine playbooks of 1641\'9642 as a percentage of 6,356 (0.1 percent) instead of 1,108 (0.8 percent) is probably right.\'94 (50)\
Appendices of his methods: this was a HUGE AMOUNT OF WORK}