{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Looking more closely at these two works, as the only works by Charlotte Smith which are available in all four databases, illuminates how none of the four truly offer access to the \'93same\'94 work. First, of course, there is the facilely obvious detail that they provide fundamentally different information ESTC gives bibliographic records and library shelf-marks, deferring \'91outward\'92 to a \'91real\'92 physical book. The other three choose a specific copy to represent this \'91real\'92 book, and provide a mediated reformulation of that copy. ECCO provides monochrome images of microfilm scans; HathiTrust, full-colour digital photographs of book pages. The TCP offers meticulously hand-encoded transcripts. The bibliographic metadata for these works is the same between ESTC, ECCO, and ECCO-TCP records. In HathiTrust, however, the source text for 
\i The Emigrants
\i0  is a University of California Library copy (rather than the British Library copy used by the others), which has been scanned by Google Books and is presented with substantially less detailed bibliographic information. The ESTC, ECCO, and ECCO-TCP records for The Emigrants all provide the same physical description \'93ix,[3],68[i.e. 60]p. ; 4\uc0\u8304 \'94 with the same note \'93[n]umbers 9-16 omitted in pagination; text is continuous.\'94 HathiTrust, in contrast, gives the physical description \'93ix, 68 p. ; 26 cm,\'94 which is both more and less information: a quarto volume could be a range of sizes, so HathiTrust provides new detail by giving a measurement in centimetres, but the data on page numbers is now {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4DC3E54C-FBE1-40B9-8EF5-7A8C4F1E6D62"}}{\fldrslt misleading.}} It becomes clear that HathiTrust, borne as it is from Google\'92s corporate priorities, has lost effort on \'91reinventing the wheel\'92: even as HathiTrust fills some gaps in existing scholarly resources, it does so at the expense of having to start from scratch, creating new gaps where previous work makes them needless.}