{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 I started by testing just 
\i The Emigrants
\i0 . To get the text without the XML markup, I viewed it at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/ecco/004801766.0001.000?rgn=main;view=fulltext"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 https://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/ecco/004801766.0001.000?rgn=main;view=fulltext}} and simply copy-pasted the page into a plaintext file, manually deleting the header and footer website text so that the file only contained the poem. I saved it as emigrants-TCO-OCR.txt.\
I attempted to download the HathiTrust edition by going to the \'93text-only view of this item\'94 at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/ssd?id=uc1.31175035214942;page=ssd;view=plaintext;seq=15;num=ix"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/ssd?id=uc1.31175035214942;page=ssd;view=plaintext;seq=15;num=ix}}
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 ,
\f0\fs22 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0  where I discovered that I only had \'93one page at a time access to this item,\'94 even though it was correctly identified under \'93Rights\'94 as a public domain work. Authenticating through the University of Toronto gave me access to the full work. This page came with the warning \'93Use of this online version is subject to all U.S. copyright laws. Please do not save or redistribute this file,\'94 which I disregarded under Fair Use to save a personal research copy of the text. Again the easiest method was to copy-paste the page into a plaintext file and delete unnecessary headers. I deleted \'93Book Text - Front Cover\'94 and everything above, and \'93End of Section 9\'94 and below, and saved the file as emigrants-Hathi-OCR.txt.\
To download the ECCO OCR file, I went to the new Gale Digital Scholar Labs portal (since ECCO itself does not make the OCR available). The \'93basic search\'94 very annoyingly attempted to autocomplete my search for \'93the emigrants\'94 to unrelated terms, like \'93henry the eighth\'94 and \'93female emigrants\'94. The \'93advanced search\'94 did the same, changing \'93the emigrants\'94 to \'93therefore\'94 and \'93mall of the emirates.\'94 Eventually, I was able to find the desired text by searching \'93the emigrants\'94 as document title and \'93charlotte smith\'94 as author. Gale Digital Scholar Labs prominently assigns an \'93OCR Confidence\'94 of 95% to the record. The viewer did not give me 95% confidence. This method of accessing the text was the first to offer a download of the OCR. I downloaded it with their tool, examine the file, and deleted the disclaimer about OCR which appeared at the top, then renamed the file emigrants-ECCO-OCR.txt to match the other files.\
At this point I was ready to load the files into Juxta. I signed in to Juxta Commons (at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://juxtacommons.org/home/index"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 http://juxtacommons.org/home/index}}) to use the web interface, and uploaded all three files as \'93sources.\'94 I prepared all three as \'93witnesses,\'94 then created a \'93comparison set\'94 of \'93Emigrants OCRs\'94 with them and collated. It took a long time to collate, and then I discovered that, unfortunately, whichever file appears first (in this case, the ECCO file) is taken as the \'93base\'94 to compare the others to, and I couldn\'92t determine how the base could be changed. I deleted the ECCO and Hathi witnesses from the set, then dragged them back in to it, to place them below the TCP witness. This caused unexpected server errors and failed, so I deleted the whole set, then created a new one with just the TCP witness and tried again. This worked, but the ECCO witness was immediately listed about the TCP witness, presumably due to alphabetization. I created a new witness from my TCP source, naming it beginning with A, and added that to the comparison set, then collated. To my surprise, Juxa calculated a relatively low \'93change index\'94 for each text compared to the TCP witness: ECCO had a .16 change from base (i.e., 84% accuracy), and HathiTrust a .29 change from base (i.e., 71% accuracy). Some of HathiTrust\'92s inaccuracy may come from the fact that it uses the \uc0\u383  character whereas TCP modernizes this to an s.}