{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Review\uc0\u8232 Reviewed Work(s): Cultural Capital: The Problem of Literary Canon Formation by John Guillory\u8232 Review by: Jan Gorak\u8232 Source: Modern Philology, Vol. 94, No. 2 (Nov., 1996), pp. 286-290\u8232 Published by: The University of Chicago Press\u8232 Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/437977\u8232 Accessed: 01-06-2019 21:45 UTC 
\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf3 Gorak has particularly good summaries of Guillory\'92s arguments within individual chapters, esp. his close readings.\
\'93\cf2 Impatient with the frustrating course 
\fs21\fsmilli10667 of the current debate, the author wants to expand and, in expanding,\uc0\u8232 
\fs24 change utterly the terms of that debate. 
\b Rather than increase the\cf3  \cf2 number of works taught in the classroom, Guillory wants to widen ac
\fs21\fsmilli10667 cess to the school. Without universal access to the school, he suggests,\uc0\u8232 entry to the literary canon appears a cruel irrelevance,
\b0  a key that promises entry to the palace of art but leads only to the dungeon. In\cf3  \cf2 an expanded school system, however, canons wither away or dwindle\uc0\u8232 to less imposing significance. For once the school becomes the con
\fs18\fsmilli9333 struction site for diverse and autonomous communities embarked on\cf3  
\fs24 \cf2 an ongoing process of judgment and creation, then there is no need\uc0\u8232 
\fs21\fsmilli10667 for a special class of cultural monuments that carry special privi
\fs24 leges. "Reschooling society" tolls the knell for monumental canons, 
\fs21\fsmilli10667 and maybe even for art itself; but it rings in the arrival of any equitable social order. This is how Guillory's last chapter wraps up his bold "thought experiment" (p. 340).\cf3 \'94 (Gorak 287) \'97 I don\'92t think she totally got it?
\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl200\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf3 \'93\cf2 Such idealistic hopes for the school of the future will almost obli- gatorily involve an author in some harsh verdicts on the schools of the past and the present. In an opening chapter that matches the breadth of his last, Guillory demonstrates how canonizers and canon busters are both locked into the restrictive notion of "representation" that has tacitly controlled the contemporary controversy about the canon. "Representation," he argues, leads to the politics of the image, where a few "marginal" authors find their way into classrooms still in- habited by a privileged social and ethnic minority. "Representation" overlooks the demographic composition and social functions of the institutions responsible for instruction in public literacy and advanced literary study that Guillory labels "the school.\'94\cf3 \'94 (Gorak 287)\
\'93
\fs24 \cf2 By now it is clear that 
\b Guillory has constructed his case studies to convict literary studies of abdicating from the public space
\b0 . Hence it 
\fs21\fsmilli10667 appropriate that the third case study should turn to Paul de Man, the\uc0\u8232 Captain Grimes of the Yale graduate program, whose wartime journalism supplies further evidence of the political deficiencies of the twen- tieth-century literary mind\cf3 \'94 (Gorak 289)\
\'93\cf2 The cribbed, cabined, confined condition of the English Studies bequeathed by the de Man legacy clears a vast space for the emanci- pation narrative unfolded in Guillory's last chapter.\cf3 \'94 (289)\
\'93
\fs24 \cf2 Guillory's classroom without walls is something few educators at\uc0\u8232 a time of shrinking budgets, declining enrollments, and burgeoning 
\fs21\fsmilli10667 radicalism will find it in their hearts to resist. I wonder, however, whether a work on the problem of literary canon formation can pro- ceed in the way Guillory's does. It is surely the case that people who produce art and people responsible for teaching it both form canons.\cf3  \cf2 It is surely the case, too, that from Thomas Love Peacock to Ezra Pound the first group of people have rarely venerated the contribution made by the second. But the importance of artists, so central to much of Bourdieu's work, is something Guillory barely registers, nor does he 
\fs24 make an adequate inventory of the range of textual operations per- formed in the literature departments of twentieth-century schools. Consequently, Cultural Capital launches its broad utopian projections 
\fs21\fsmilli10667 from a dangerously narrow base.\cf3 \'94 (Gorak 290)}