{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Consolation for the scorbutic, scrofulous, leprous, &c : and worthy also the serious perusal of the medical profession. Being an abstract from a few of those remarkable cures which illustrate Mr. Hayman's 'Treatise, explaining the nature and affinity of scorbutic diseases.\'92\'94\
\
This is an 8p. ;  8\uc0\u8304  extract; ESTC notes that it \'93contains testimonials and a list of persons treated\'94 and categorizes its \'93Genre/form\'94 under \'93Advertisements.\'94 The only physical copy noted is at Niedersachsische Staats und Universitatsbibliothek in Gottingen, Germany. This, it mentions, is \'93Bound with the 'Gentleman's Magazine', vol. 63, part 2, 1793\'94 \'97 a volume which is also present in HathiTrust! The OCR is too low-quality to find the advertisement by searching key words.\
The index does list a Hayman on p 961 but this was the obituary of a William Hayman :(\
As far as I can tell, the Gentleman\'92s Magazine does not include this kind of advertisement within it, so it must have been some particular reader in Germany who chose to bind them together.\
I contacted the holding archive in Germany, writing a message in bad google-translate German! }