{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi600\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How do scholarly collections of texts represent or otherwise relate to collectives of people? How does the work of some groups of people come to be underrepresented or overrepresented in these collections?\'a0 Much  scholarly work has been driven by the conviction that textual canons 
\i are
\i0  related human communities, and thus that there is urgent political and social importance to academic textual selection and textual reproduction. John Guillory\'92s 
\i Cultural Capital
\i0  argues that despite the rhetoric of pluralism, the representation of texts in a literary canon is not identical to, or even directly translatable to, representation of groups of people. The inclusion that matters is the inclusion of people within the institutions of textual production \'97 publishing houses, academic departments, libraries, and classrooms. The ability of these institutions to selectively reproduce some texts over others, in a world shaped by social hierarchies of many kinds, is never irrelevant. The question of which texts ought to be selected, and whether current selections are just, is insoluble in part because it addresses a moving target: canonical texts seem stable, but canons change frequently to meet new social needs. My dissertation examines the extent to which digital databases of literature do and do not function according to the logic of literary canons. Like printed canons, these databases, especially the smaller ones, are vulnerable to a critique of their selection methods on the grounds of representation. However, unlike the various literary canons, digital databases tend to conceal which particular titles have been selected as representative. Moreover, digital corpora are used to support very different claims about the world than those which are implied by an anthology or a syllabus. Although many productive questions can be formed by treating\'a0 digital textual collections as analogous to printed canons, therefore, the most useful answers to those questions will arise from an attention to the unique affordances of digital media, those features that mean they operate institutionally 
\i unlike
\i0  canons.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \'a0It is often extremely difficult to know what is in a digital corpus of texts, whether is it an institutional resource (like the British Library\'92s Digitized Books) or an individual scholar\'92s collection of works for a particular research question (like Franco Moretti\'92s collections of \'93detective fiction\'94). Even large resources used by many scholars provide little context for their choices of what to include or exclude. Indeed, the larger a resource, the less likely these inclusions will be framed as choices at all, as the implicit selection factor of availability in university libraries dominates all other considerations. As emerging work in critical algorithm studies by scholars like Wendy Hui Kyong Chun and Safiya Noble has shown, these hidden choices are particularly problematic when they not only replicate but intensify patterns of historical exclusion. My research focuses specifically on writing printed in England between 1789 and 1799, to explore how works from this eleven-year \'93decade\'94 have been selected as important, literary, or popular. The late eighteenth century is a thematically resonant moment for the questions I ask. This period saw a rapid increase in the volume of texts being published, and many expressed alarm and uncertainty about changes in 
\i who
\i0  was now reading and writing. For this decade, the English Short Title Catalogue provides basic bibliographic data for nearly 52,000 titles, but the Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation Partnership corpus of XML-encoded full texts \'97 the source for most distant reading research on eighteenth century literature \'97 includes fewer than 500 titles. This difference raises the question: why were the other 51,500 titles not considered worth the investment of scholarly effort? And with particular urgency: do the most invested-in resources underrepresent the written work produced by women?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 My experiments examine five major databases to answer these questions: The English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC), Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO), the Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation Partnership (ECCO-TCP), Project Gutenberg, and HathiTrust. For each database, I calculate how many works printed in England 1789-1799 are attributed to male, female, or unknown authors, and compare the representation of broad categories of writing like poetry, drama, prose fiction, sermons, non-fiction, and ephemera. Identifying these categories of writing within each database reveals a predictable preference for \'93literary\'94 forms such as novels and poetry (rather than non-fiction or sermons) in the smaller databases. This preference for particular kinds of writing might explain changes in, for example, gender representation. If novels are mostly written by women, for example, a corpus can underrepresent women by under-representing novels. Or it could include a representative number of novels, but disproportionately include novels by men. My investigation allows me to identify the patterns of selection.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 This work also allows me to interrogate the rhetoric of \'93representation\'94 which has driven much of the conversation around both canons and digital databases. Franco Moretti\'92s \'93Conjectures on World Literature\'94 famously proposes that computational \'93distant reading\'94 could \'93solve\'94 the problem of literary canons. Twenty years later, Ted Underwood\'92s 
\i Distant Horizons
\i0  argues that this goal as now been abandoned as ill-conceived, and that no important results actually emerged. But I do not consider this a pass\'e9 area of inquiry; I see Moretti\'92s failure at the site of his methods, not in his core question. A close interrogation of Moretti\'92s work, particularly his most controversial claims, shows striking lacunae and obfuscations in his corpus-building. This is where the logic of \'93representation\'94 remains of urgent import: as the grounds from which we attempt to determine truths about the literary history, and cultural history, that matters. Here, I follow Kath Bode in continuing to re-examine the core assumptions of distant reading research. Like Bode, I lean in to what I see as the natural connections between distant reading and bibliography, to address macroanalytic questions in ways which do not erase or gloss over textual history. By applying the frameworks of critical algorithm studies of the bibliographic records of the 1790s, I examine not only how women\'92s writing was represented within the printed media of the eighteenth century, but how current research infrastructure represents or marginalizes particular writing communities today.}