{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red253\green162\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Two questions in the FAQ, \'93Why would I buy something that is achievable only if others do the same?\'94 and \'93Why would I buy something that is going to become freely available?\'94 taken together imply the speculative and ambitious nature of the original project. In the official answers provided to these evidently frequently asked questions, there is a sense that the project posed a prisoner\'92s dilemma: every individual institution\'92s \'93best\'94 move, from a game theory perspective, was to contribute nothing to the project and then reap the benefits of everyone else\'92s work, but if every institution did so, then no one would benefit. A close reading of both responses illuminates an interesting tension in values:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\li720\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Why would I buy something that is achievable only if others do the same?\
Mere calculation may have disinclined some libraries from joining. TCP partnership was always less a purchase than an (admittedly risky) investment, since all of Michigan\'92s projections for the TCP corpus depended on a certain optimistic assumptions about how many other institutions would join.  Some libraries may have joined out of faith in Michigan\'92s track record, or because of a long-standing connection with the University or its staff. Some out of an idealistic belief in the collaborative model that TCP represented or in the public value of the product it promised. Some perhaps out of a cost-benefit risk estimate. For all the partner libraries, however, TCP membership was in effect a commitment to fellow libraries to share the burden and reward of this work. Partner libraries contributed to the cost of producing tens of thousands of painstakingly produced electronic editions of early English works. Each new library that joined made it possible for the project to key books that we otherwise would not, improving the corpus for everyone.\
Why would I buy something that is going to become freely available?\
This question too has no obvious answer that will please everyone, and indeed this question may have influenced some potential partners to refrain from joining. The structure of the TCP, with its provisions for exclusive access for a time, followed by public release, was something of a balancing act, designed to encourage membership by both those who were unwilling to wait ten years or so for access to the texts on behalf of their students and faculty, and those who believed in the creation of an unrestricted public resource and were willing on altruistic grounds to contribute to it.  Regardless of their motives for joining, the success of the EEBO-TCP depended on the support of partner institutions. The partnership fee directly funded the conversion of new books,  and greatly affected the rate at which the work was carried out. By joining up,  a library not only gained immediate access to the texts,  and not only contributed to making a larger, more comprehensive corpus for everyone, but also measurably affected the pace, and advanced the completion date, of the project\'96and thereby advanced the date at which  the texts would be released to the public.
\fs22 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 The answers weakly attempt to provide the game-theory argument, but also carry the sense that the true answer, which they would like to give, has nothing to do with game theory and rationality, and everything to do with transcendent values of scholarship itself. In the minutes to the 2001 meeting of their executive board, they open with: \'93the project should determine more clearly if it is \'91a partnership or a product.\'92 Comment was offered that it is a \'91partnership to create a product\'92\'94 (TCP Executive Board, 2001)\
\
The TCP is thus an intervention into [stuff about money.] They describe the project as \'93a public-private partnership, led by libraries\'94 (TCP, \'93About\'94) and emphasize the \'93librarian\'92s attitude toward content\'94 which prioritizes the widest possible access and use. This \'93librarian\'92s attitude\'94 is most evident in the (eventual) availability of all of the transcriptions in the public domain, despite the fact that the images they are based on remain privately restricted by the companies which own them. Their description of the \'93partnership,\'94 however, continues to show signs of the strain in value systems when commercial and noncommercial goals are intertwined: \'93Through our partnership with private vendors, we had access to a huge trove of images from which to transcribe. In return, these companies were supplied with a full-text index to their images \'97work which would have otherwise been difficult or expensive to produce.\'94 In other words, through purchasing a service (access to images), the academic institution received that service. These institutions carried out an enormous feat of labour at their own expense, using the service they purchased. Then, \'93in return,\'94 they provided the results of their labour for free to the company, for the company to then further profit from the improvements to their service. Most telling, here, is the word \'93otherwise.\'94 The suggestion here is that, without the TCP, the companies themselves would not have been willing to undertake the encoding (so desired by the users of their service) because it would be difficult and expensive. However, the TCP certainly did not make the task any less difficult or expensive. Instead, academic institutions absorbed the difficulty and expense on those companies\'92 behalf. I do not say that they were wrong to do so: on the contrary, the \'93librarian\'92s attitude\'94 mirrors my own attitude, and it is surely to everyone\'92s benefit for a wonderful thing to exist even if that wonderful thing is not profitable. Rather, I highlight this rhetorical moment in the TCP\'92s self description to suggest that [\cf2 \cb3 it takes two to collaborate\cf2 \cb1 .] One of the three key aims of the TCP identified on the homepage is to \'93collaborate with commercial providers, rather than constantly bargaining and competing with them\'94 (TCP \'93Welcome\'94). However, the TCP seems instead to have simply come up with a 
\i better
\i0  bargain, one which creatively offers scholarly labour as a bargaining chip.}