{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The specific experimentation undertaken in chapter two tests the basic assumptions and methods of my project. I identify what subset of Smith\'92s works each corpus contains, as a concrete example to compare their holdings overall. Smith\'92s Elegiac Sonnets, for example, are not included in the ECCO-TCP corpus (which is the one most often used for text mining research) \'97 only Celestina and The Emigrants are included. Why these two texts? And what text mining research based on ECCO-TCP might have found slightly different answers if Smith\'92s sonnets had been included? As a related test of comparison between databases, for each database which provides access to the actual text of Smith\'92s works, I compare the textual similarity of Celestina and The Emigrants. What editorial choices are being made? How much worse is the OCR text than the transcribed text? Another key concept I will explore through Smith is the role of reprints. HathiTrust, for example, includes multiple editions of Elegiac Sonnets. How reliable and effective are its distinctions between editions? How do the databases I examine handle multiple editions of a single work? I am particularly interested in how reprints can be incorporated into our understanding of what literature is \'93of\'94 a particular decade: what does it mean to think of Elegiac Sonnets, initially printed in the 1780s, as \'931790s literature\'94? Finally, having surveyed my six databases with the help of Smith, I discuss the multiple \'93Smiths\'94 which emerge, and what it means to attempt to unify her disparate works.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Chapter three does for Robinson the same initial process that chapter two did for Smith: I assemble, from a range of scholarly resources, an authoritative list of Robinson\'92s publications, and seek them in each of the six databases. My initial hypothesis is that, due to Robinson\'92s different posthumous reception, proportionally fewer of her works will be included in smaller archives compared to Charlotte Smith. In addition to comparing Robinson\'92s inclusion to Smith\'92s, I will use Robinson to explore the structural makeup of my databases, examining their representation of \'93authorship\'94 the way I used Smith\'92s Elegiac Sonnets to examine their representation of \'93editions.\'94 Robinson frequently wrote under pseudonyms or left works unsigned: how do the databases I examine handle authorship attribution? Discussing the digital encoding of Robinson\'92s authorship raises the subject of authorship more generally, as a flexible concept which can resist strict encoding.\'a0 In particular, it draws attention to the importance of unsigned works, as distinct from anonymous works, and \'93open secrets\'94 of authorship. As with Smith, I close the chapter with a consideration of Robinson herself as an author.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Chapter four uses Ann Radcliffe as an important contrast to Charlotte Smith and especially to Mary Robinson, to challenge the ease with which the number of unique titles can stand in for both \'93popularity\'94 and \'93importance.\'94 Taking as my premise that Radcliffe was unquestionably both popular and important in the 1790s, I examine the extent to which she does (or does not) rise to attention within my corpora of that decade. I explore both print runs and reviews as important supplementary forms of information, and prototype and test computational methods to integrate these kinds of information with more accessible metadata. Print runs are of particular importance to interpreting Radcliffe\'92s career, since a large run of one edition can represent far more actual books produced than several small editions, and Radcliffe\'92s celebrity often meant large print runs. To compare her output to Smith\'92s and Robinson\'92s, I test and compare a few methods of calculating the total number of books printed for each author during the decade. To compare her reception to theirs, I hope to use a prototype version of Megan Peiser\'92s in-progress Novels Reviewed Database. In both cases, my method will begin with manually researching the three authors\'92 major works, and then exploring scalable computational methods. The chapter closes, again, with a reflection on Radcliffe as an author.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Chapter five takes the complex methodologies developed in the preceding three chapters, and stress-tests them on More\'92s difficult publication history. The many Cheap Repository Tracts are difficult to comprehensively identify and attribute authorship to: how have digital resources dealt with these challenges? I am particularly interested in examining publication details which More might have exaggerated for promotional purposes: what grounds can be identified for her claims of exceptional circulation rates? Of particular interest is the fact that More reprinted some Cheap Repository Tracts in different formats for different price points and audiences. Can these differences be captured in the databases I examine? Examining More\'92s oeuvre also raises questions of literariness: if, as I expect, the Cheap Repository Tracts are excluded from more selective databases, is this appropriate? What kinds of \'93non-literary\'94 writing is included in each database? This question brings my bibliographic research back home to the core questions about canon-building which drive my inquiry. To this point, I have sought ways to evaluate authors\'92 popularity and their importance in the print marketplace, as related metrics which underly the authors\'92 reputations. With More, I explore directly the use of literariness as an inherently unquantifiable metric of selection.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 In the following chapters, this dissertation weaves together an exploration of 1790s literature with an exploration of contemporary digital resources. As described in more detail above, chapter two uses Charlotte Smith to introduce the core differences between the databases under consideration, and to examine our conceptions of editions and reprinting. Chapter three uses Mary Robinson, whose printed output is expected to be largely similar in bibliographic terms to Smith\'92s (that is, they both consist of a large number of publications in a wide range of genres, which were successful enough to sustain a career as a writer), to examine questions about authorship and reception. Chapter four introduces an author who provides a contrast to both Smith and Robinson by producing a small number of titles in only one genre, Ann Radcliffe, prompting deeper inquiry into print runs and reviews, to develop richer metrics for \'93popularity\'94 or \'93importance.\'94 Chapter five introduces another contrasting author, of the opposing type, Hannah More, whose large number of publications at varied price points presents a technical challenge for the tools I have developed, and also a theoretical challenge for the concepts of literature I explore. A brief conclusion synthesizes my findings on these four authors, and presents my assessment of how they relate to 1790s literature as a whole.
\f1\fs24 \
}