{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Also in the category of smaller and specialized archives is Project Gutenberg. Project Gutenberg makes no claims to scholarly reliability but nonetheless underlies a not-significant amount of scholarly {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://945550F8-F3BA-49C0-8DB0-CE98A27532BD"}}{\fldrslt work}} \'97 its cultural capital as a resource lags far behind its use and utility. Project Gutenberg is easily conceived of as a haphazard, \'91unscholarly\'92 source for materials, but unlike Google Books, Project Gutenberg actually does have selection criteria. Project Gutenberg will only collect public domain works which contemporary audiences might be interested in reading for pleasure. It narrows the field substantially to exclude works which have either ceased to be broadly interesting (as in the case of most forgotten fiction), or which were never particularly interesting (as in the case of almanacs and tax codes). Project Gutenberg includes 57,796 texts: far more than specialized scholarly archives like the Early Novels Database or the Shelley-Godwin Archive, but nonetheless an order of magnitude fewer than its more-voracious potential competitors. And, like smaller specialized scholarly archives, Project Gutenberg has tailored its holdings to make it easy for readers to read, and quite difficult for its collection to be applied to any other use. By tailoring the structure of the archive itself to its specific materials, these collections are able to thoughtfully achieve their aims \'97 but they also make it correspondingly difficult for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1B2EF5D6-C1DD-49B7-AB9A-3F384AC37EEA"}}{\fldrslt users}} to achieve their own, different aims.}