{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
, I tender a preliminary analysis of the surviving record of eighteenth-century imprints in Britain and Ireland based on an ordered sampling of the English short-title catalogue \cf3 (39)\
\cf2 Among the problems one encounters in using the ESTC for data collection and analysis is that it is not a stable database, but rather is constantly growing and changing as it is updated and subject to improvements, additions and corrections.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf2 \up10 5 
\fs24 \cf2 \up0 The data in this study were collected between 2002 and 2004; while every effort has been made to control for the shifting nature of the database, such accommodations have not always been possible, especially since neither corrections nor \cf3 / \cf2 additions to the ESTC are marked as new.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf2 \up10 6 
\fs24 \cf2 \up0 (At times, one may feel rather like Walter Shandy compiling the Tristapaedia.) \cf3 (39-40)\
\cf2 Regrettably, although this volume of The Cambridge history of the book in Britain ends in 1830, it is not possible to perform a similarly comprehensive analysis for the first decades of the nineteenth century because we have no equivalent bibliographical control for this period. The nineteenth century short-title catalogue is based on the holdings of a far more limited number of libraries than is the ESTC, and is especially weak in provincial publishing at a time when such publications were increasingly important to local and regional markets.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf2 \up10 8 
\fs24 \cf2 \up0 Even adding records from Copac 
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf2 \up10 \'ae 
\fs24 \cf2 \up0 and the Online Computer Library Centre\'92s WorldCat would not produce a bibliography with coverage comparable to the ESTC. Other attempts at providing a more thorough conspectus of imprints for the nineteenth century, although valuable, similarly do not have the comprehensive qualities of the ESTC. \cf3 (40)\
\cf2 One crucial caveat should be considered at the outset: the Eighteenth-century short-title catalogue, as it was, and the English short-title catalogue, as it is now \'96 coverage having been extended retrospectively to the mid-fifteenth century \'96 
\b only records bibliographic information about surviving books
\b0 .
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf2 \up10 10 
\fs24 \cf2 \up0 After a careful study of book advertisements, inventories and bibliographies, it seems to this investigator that, excluding jobbing and newspaper printing, as much as 10 per cent of the printed record from 1701\'961800 has not been incorporated into the ESTC.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf2 \up10 11 
\fs24 \cf2 \up0 In other words, for up to 10 per cent of the editions printed in the eighteenth century, not a single copy is known to survive. \cf3 (40)}