{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 One of the slight embarrassments that attends on digital humanities research within the institution of the university, can be the extent to which truly insightful and influential related work occurs outside of that institution, and thus fails to conform to institutional expectations. This awkwardness is intensified by disciplinary differences, wherein even within the institution of the university, fields like computer science and literature value very different forms of publication. The \'91peak\'92 publication in literature, in its assumed rigor and importance, is the monograph, followed by the journal article, then perhaps a chapter in an edited collection. A conference presentation is hardly even a source to be cited in future work: these talks in literature are ephemeral, partly ad-hoc; one expects to cite, instead, the journal article which will follow a \cf3 top-notch \cf2 talk. This rough allocation of cultural capital to various forms of publication tracks with the level of peer review and the effort of composition involved with each. The more thoroughly scrutinized and edited a work is, the more potential value it is regarded as having: this is perfectly sensible.\
The difference in computer science, then, is the difference in where the discipline carries out its own reviews. A conference paper in computer science will be blind peer-reviewed by external reviewers, with readers\'92 reports and revisions, based on a full manuscript (rather than just an abstract) before the paper is accepted to the conference. In other words, very nearly the process which occurs for a journal article in literature. Conferences in computer science have acceptance rates around 30%, though particularly prestigious conferences have acceptance rates around 15%. At the conference itself, rather than the many simultaneous panels of a literature conference, one paper is given at a time, which is assumed to the worth the attention of all attendees [\cf2 \cb4 DOUBLE-CHECK THIS\cf2 \cb1 ]. When the full manuscripts of these presentations are then distributed in the conference proceedings, therefore, it is a top-tier publication. Computer science thinks of itself as a fast-moving field such that any research which went through the old-fashioned process of becoming a book is sure to be outdated by the time it\'92s printed: books are assumed to be textbooks for undergraduates, the sort of thing one produces as a career is winding down, to demonstrate broad expertise in well-established foundations [\cf2 \cb4 DOUBLE-CHECK THIS\cf2 \cb1 ]. [ALSO EXPLAIN ARXIV.ORG]\
Some digital humanities work, then, circulates in conference proceedings which can appear suspect in the literary field, and we have relatively few monographs (though that is starting to change). [Also important: blog posts.] [Bode calls it the \'93gray literature\'94]}