{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Here we can see that the overlooked group, unable to compete with male authors for archival attention, is not \'93female authors\'94 but \'93authors which are not associated with an individual {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6DB5163B-E0DD-499E-A800-28454D4677AA"}}{\fldrslt personality.\'94}} The underrepresentation of unsigned or corporate authors cannot be mapped onto the multicultural rhetoric of political representation, the way Guillory has described with gendered representation. \'93Unsigned\'94 or \'93pseudonymous\'94 people are not an identity category in the real world requiring equitable social standing: the unsigned and pseudonymous authors, if identified, would all turn out to have names, genders, races, class standings, and all the other traits of humans in the world. What their status as \'93unsigned\'94 in the database really means is not that those traits are absent \'97 it means that those traits are undetermined at the site of the title page.\
Scholars have worked to infrastructurally eliminate the \'93unsigned\'94 author. Names are placed into the relevant database fields wherever possible, supplying new information that cannot be found on the title page and may have been entirely unavailable to eighteenth century readers. \cb2 Jane Austen\'92s works, for example, were published unsigned, and then \'93by a lady,\'94 but will always be present in the database under \'93Austen, Jane.\'94\cb1  There is obvious practical use in disseminating author identifications \'97 indeed, there is very little point in determining the authors of pseudonymous works if this information is not fully incorporated into the scholarly record. But the particular implementation also occludes how eighteenth century readers actually encountered author information. An identified name overwrites the information recorded on the title page. \'93Real\'94 names are provided even in cases where this substitution contains little real information. One work, titled \'93Observations on the origin and effects of the Test Act\'94 and printed in 1790, has its author listed in the ESTC as \'93Hudson, active 1790.\'94 A note suggests that this attribution is somewhat shaky: \'93Attribution from Halkett & Laing which seems to be based on a MS attribution on O copy title page, no longer legible. O copy with MS date May 18. 1790. Verify number and position of advertisement leaves.\'94 This is the only item in the ESTC attributed to \'93Hudson, 1790\'94 so identifying \'93Hudson\'94 in this way does not provide value by linking the work to another. In contrast, the title page attribution identifies the author as \'93a dissenter.\'94 This, I contend, is a more useful identification of the author.}