{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93\'94because of their dependence on the sort of techniques of organizing and composing landscape that I have been discussing, the cultivated classes in England felt much more at ease, in the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, in landscape which had been enclosed" (32). And: "The effect, far from suggesting any sense of locality, instead serves to show that one locality . . . can be treated in much the same way as another, in that it can be persuaded to illustrate the same rhetorical commonplaces. " I propose that the effect of generality in locodescriptive poetry is precisely the reinhabiting of the emptied "common" by the rhetorical commonplace.\'94 (363)\
\
\'94Roy Porter, English Society in the Eighteenth Century (Harmondsworth: Pen- guin Books, 1982), 65, cites a typical statement of Defoe's: "Men are every day starting up from obscurity to wealth." The question of social mobility is no longer a simple one, if it ever was, and I must therefore add the following qualifications. 
\b Historians are now inclined to emphasize a disparity between the perception of up- ward mobility and the actual rate at which this mobility occurred.
\b0  Doubtless if one confines the definition of mobility to actual examples of the bourgeoisie passing into the ranks of the nobility, the numbers of those passing, as Lawrence Stone has demonstrated in The Open Elite? England 1540-1880 (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1984), are relatively small. Stone biases his study by constricting his definition of the ruling elite to the landed country "squirearchy," and he is thus able to conclude that the "perennial openness of England's landed elite to penetration by members of newly enriched bourgeoisie is clearly no more than a hoary myth." Now this statistical revisionism is based upon what can only be an arbitrary judgment about precisely what minimum number of aristocratized bourgeois would qualify the elite as "open." Setting aside the question of whether this use of statistics is not intended to confound the very possibility of a class analysis, one may at least argue that 
\b the perception of upward mobility, which was ubiquitous and even hysterical in the eighteenth century, is a real event with real historical consequences.
\b0  For a somewhat different analysis than Stone's, see Peter Laslett's The World We Have / 
\f1\i\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Lost 
\i0 (New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1965). The perception of upward mo- bility is related to the demonstrable imitation of aristocratic manners by the profes- sional middle classes and the haute bourgeoisie. The concept of upward mobility therefore cannot be confined to the actual expansion of the landed elite: its site is rather the cultural homogenization of the aristocracy and the bourgeoisie, which Auerbach describes in the literary/linguistic sphere. Here the evidence Stone him- self collects suggests the cardinal importance of education in this process of homog- enization (27,408), particularly the significance of the professional middle classes, the "middling sort," who were more easily capable of acquiring the knowledge and manners of the aristocracy than of acquiring vast landed capital. 
\f2 It 
\f1 is this version of social mobility which is crucial to the present argument.
\f0\fs22 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'94 (363-364)\
\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Herbert McLachlan, 
\i English Education Under the Test Acts 
\i0 (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 1931),216. In a recent study, 
\i The Pristine Culture 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 of 
\fs24 \cf3 Capitalism: A Historical Essay on Old Regimes and Modern States 
\i0 (London: Verso, 1991), p. 82, Ellen Meiksins Wood remarks how narrow this linguistic prac- tice could be: "Britain is certainly not alone among European nations to identify social classes by means of differential sound patterns in their habits of speech. But it 
\i is 
\i0 perhaps distinctive in the extent to which sound patterns, the conventions of pro- nunciation, predominate over other linguistic criteria of social difference.\'94\cf2 \'94 (365)\
\
\'93\cf3 The significance of middle-class women in this movement has been recently stressed by Nancy Armstrong, "Literature as Women's History," 
\i Genre 
\i0 19 (Winter 1986),367: "Today few of us realize that many features of our standard humanities curriculum came from a curriculum designed specifically for educating polite young women who were not of the ruling class, or that the teaching of native British literature developed as a means of socializing children, the poor, and foreigners be- fore we became a masculine profession." Barbauld was uniquely privileged in he \cf2 / \cf3 educational opportunities (she even persuaded her father, Dr. Aiken, to teach her Latin and Greek), although she was not an advocate of schools for women. She seems to have promoted instead the more unofficial instruments of literary culture as a means of disseminating knowledge to women.\cf2 \'94 (365-366)\
\
\'93\cf3 For a brief account of Old Corruption, see Philip Corrigan and Derek Sayer, 
\i The Great Arch: English State Formation as Cultural Revolution 
\i0 (Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1987). We might contextualize Gray's ignoble/noble strife here by point- ing also to the 
\i libelles 
\i0 of the French underground press, which actively dele- gitimized the French nobility in the decades before the revolution. Robert Darnton writes in 
\i The Literary Underground 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 of
\fs24 \cf3 the Old Regime 
\i0 (Cambridge: Harvard Uni- versity Press, 1982),29: 
\b "The 
\i grand monde 
\i0 was the real target of the 
\i libelles. 
\i0 They slandered the court, the church, the aristocracy, the academies, the salons, every- thing elevated and respectable, including the monarchy itself, with a scurrility that is difficult to imagine today, although it has a long career in underground litera- ture."
\b0  Similarly, the ethico-satiric productions of English High Culture sublimate Grub Street productions by the same techniques of "normalization" to which Gray's classical sources are subjected. Darnton's study is quite pertinent to the general argument of this essay, though it would lead us to an account of how differently the nationalizing of French literature proceeds. Darnton notes in passing that the Academie Franc;aise restricted literary immortality to "forty privileged individuals" (21). For a recent consideration of "Grub Street," as this notion is mystified by the distinction between High and Low Culture, see Kathy Macdermott, "Literature and the Grub Street Myth," in 
\i Popular Fictions: Essays in Literature and His- tory, 
\i0 ed. Peter Humm et al. (London: Methuen, 1986), 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 16-28.\cf2 \'94 (366)\
\
"
\fs24 \cf3 John Aiken, "Essay on Ballads and Pastoral Songs" (1793), quoted in 
\i A Book 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 of 
\fs24 \cf3 English Verse, 
\i0 ed. John Barrell and John Bull (New York: Oxford University Press, 1975),435. One might remark here on a certain tension between the nation- alist agenda carried by the forging of a vernacular standard and the invention of "traditions, " the latter manifested by the movement to collect specimens of the ear- liest English poetry (Percy's 
\i Reliques, 
\i0 for example). This tension might be described as the difference between the cultural value of the bourgeois sociolect and the ideo- logical value of "authentic" English dialect; perhaps the hypothetical grounding of the bourgeois sociolect in peasant speech was one way of resolving this tension.\cf2 \'94 (368)\
\
\'93\cf3 Since the High Culture canon is for us a given of higher education, its relation to "juvenile" literature-which no less than "great" works has a history of canon formation in the 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 schools-has 
\fs24 \cf3 been unfortunately obscured. I would like to open up the question of this other canon, 
\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 if 
\f1\fs24 \cf3 it cannot be thoroughly explored here, by invoking some of the names in its pantheon (randomly selected): O. Henry, Ambrose Bierce, Washington Irving, Richard Connell (author of "The Most Dan- gerous Game"), Edgar Allan Poe, James Thurber, Robert Louis Stevenson, John Masefield, Carl Sandburg, Edwin Arlington Robinson, A. E. Housman, Amy Lowell, Robert Frost. The fact that some of these names appear in the High Culture canon is an interesting, not an invalidating, complication of the present thesis. Gray's "Elegy" is itself an example of this dual citizenship, since it has so frequently been taught at the primary and secondary levels.\cf2 \'94 (368)}