{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93 The Text Creation Partnership started, in 1999, as a collaboration between the university libraries of Michigan and Oxford, the Council on Library and Information Resources, and the publisher of Early English Books Online, Proquest. The aim was to create high quality \'91standardized, digitally-encoded electronic text editions\'92 starting with 25,000 titles from Early English Books Online.\'94 (Gregg n. pag.)\
\'93The Text Creation Partnership was conceived in 1999 between the University of Michigan Library, Bodleian Libraries at the University of Oxford, ProQuest, and the Council on Library and Information Resources as an innovative way for libraries around the world to:\
* pool their resources in order to create full-text resources few could afford individually\
* create texts to a common standard suitable for search, display, navigation, and reuse\
* collaborate with commercial providers, rather than constantly bargaining and competing with them\'94 (TCP \'93Welcome\'94)\
Those four named organizers \'97 Michigan, Oxford, ProQuest, and CLIR \'97 are the tip of the iceberg for institutional buy-in. At \'93Our scholarly partners,\'94 TCP lists 
\i two hundred
\i0  institutions which were involved in at least one of EEBO-TCP Phase I, EEBO-TCP Phase II, ECCO-TCP, Evans-TCP, many of which were involved in multiple of these projects. \'93This list does not include higher-education institutions based in the UK, all of which are counted as EEBO Phase 2 partners thanks to consortial funding\'94 (TCP \'93Our scholarly partners\'94).\
The \'93FAQ\'94 page still shows traces of the enormity of this undertaking. One question reveals that each partner library committed $60,000 to the venture, an amount which funds the keying and conversion of only around 250-300 books \'97 a large number, but a drop in the bucket compared to the approximately 73,000 books which the TCP as a whole has encoded. Two other questions, \'93Why would I buy something that is achievable only if others do the same?\'94 and \'93Why would I buy something that is going to become freely available?\'94 taken together imply the speculative and ambitious nature of the original project. In the official answers provided to these evidently frequently asked questions, there is a sense that the project posed a prisoner\'92s dilemma: every individual institution\'92s \'93best\'94 move, from a game theory perspective, was to contribute nothing to the project and then reap the benefits of everyone else\'92s work, but if every institution did so, then no one would benefit. A close reading of both responses illuminates an interesting tension in values:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\li720\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Why would I buy something that is achievable only if others do the same?\
Mere calculation may have disinclined some libraries from joining. TCP partnership was always less a purchase than an (admittedly risky) investment, since all of Michigan\'92s projections for the TCP corpus depended on a certain optimistic assumptions about how many other institutions would join.  Some libraries may have joined out of faith in Michigan\'92s track record, or because of a long-standing connection with the University or its staff. Some out of an idealistic belief in the collaborative model that TCP represented or in the public value of the product it promised. Some perhaps out of a cost-benefit risk estimate. For all the partner libraries, however, TCP membership was in effect a commitment to fellow libraries to share the burden and reward of this work. Partner libraries contributed to the cost of producing tens of thousands of painstakingly produced electronic editions of early English works. Each new library that joined made it possible for the project to key books that we otherwise would not, improving the corpus for everyone.\
Why would I buy something that is going to become freely available?\
This question too has no obvious answer that will please everyone, and indeed this question may have influenced some potential partners to refrain from joining. The structure of the TCP, with its provisions for exclusive access for a time, followed by public release, was something of a balancing act, designed to encourage membership by both those who were unwilling to wait ten years or so for access to the texts on behalf of their students and faculty, and those who believed in the creation of an unrestricted public resource and were willing on altruistic grounds to contribute to it.  Regardless of their motives for joining, the success of the EEBO-TCP depended on the support of partner institutions. The partnership fee directly funded the conversion of new books,  and greatly affected the rate at which the work was carried out. By joining up,  a library not only gained immediate access to the texts,  and not only contributed to making a larger, more comprehensive corpus for everyone, but also measurably affected the pace, and advanced the completion date, of the project\'96and thereby advanced the date at which  the texts would be released to the public.
\fs22 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 The answers weakly attempt to provide the game-theory argument, but also carry the sense that the true answer, which they would like to give, has nothing to do with game theory and rationality, and everything to do with transcendent values of scholarship itself. In the minutes to the 2001 meeting of their executive board, they open with: \'93the project should determine more clearly if it is \'91a partnership or a product.\'92 Comment was offered that it is a \'91partnership to create a product\'92\'94 (TCP Executive Board, 2001)\
}