{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 T\cf2 o answer my questions, about these authors and this decade, t\cf0 his dissertation undertakes computational distant reading. At every possible point, however, the underlying methodology will be made visible, and its assumptions scrutinized. The bibliographic histories of my multiple corpora are explicit objects of inquiry. Much of the code underlying this project I have written myself. Some has been written at my request. In every case where the code is available to me, the program itself appears in Appendix A (\'93Codebase\'94), accompanied by a plain-language explanation of how it operates. Where I have used closed-source software, Appendix A contains an explanation of my best guess at its underlying process. My exact use of these tools \'97 sufficient for another to replicate my work \'97 is provided in Appendix B (\'93Methodology\'94). These details are explicated in full in the appendices in order not to over-burden the body of the dissertation, but they are by no means 
\i confined
\i0  to the appendices. Computation is not a \'93black box\'94 to be consulted for simple answers, but is inextricable from my reasoning and argument.}