{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red65\green64\blue64;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c32157\c31765\c31765;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Abstract\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 The posthumously published\'a0
\i Memoirs of the Late Mrs. Robinson
\i0 \'a0(1801) has been read as a final\uc0\u8201 \'96\u8201 but flawed\u8201 \'96\u8201 attempt to defend the conduct and rescue the reputation of the notorious actress, poet, and one-time royal mistress, Mary Darby Robinson (1758\'961800). Narrating her life as a pathetic tale of transgression and suffering, the\'a0
\i Memoirs
\i0 \'a0seems destabilised by inconsistencies in structure and gaps in content which are often discussed by modern critics as shortcomings: evidence of self-censorship, \'91confused\'92 intentions, or an inability to fashion an acceptable feminine persona. However, these so-called shortcomings may comprise a nuanced strategy of self-presentation designed to evoke curiosity and sympathy. Robinson's\'a0
\i Memoirs
\i0 \'a0was reprinted throughout the nineteenth century, spurring numerous novels, mini-biographies, and periodical articles. By examining nineteenth-century responses to the\'a0
\i Memoirs
\i0 , this essay argues for Robinson's life writing as innovative and influential, and gestures to the benefits of extending the traditional \'91edges\'92 of Romanticism in terms of both genre and period.\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs34\fsmilli17333 \cf5 \cb1 Civale, S. (2018) Women\'92s life writing and reputation: a case study of Mary Darby Robinson. Romanticism, 24 (2). pp. 191-202. ISSN 1354-991X. 
\f0\fs24 \cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \'93
\f2\fs32 \cf5 \cb1 Robinson spent the bulk of her adult life transforming her public position from sex object to writing subject.\cf4 \'94 (1+191?)\
\'93\cf5 despite the continuing doubts about its reliability, Robinson\'92s 
\i \cf5 Memoirs 
\i0 \cf5 enjoyed a robust afterlife. It was reprinted ten times in the nineteenth century alone, spurring reviews, essays, spin-off novels, illustrations, poems, mini-biographies, entries in multibiographies, and citations in the life writing of other key figures, most notably that of King George IV himself. Long after her poetry and fiction had fallen out of print, Robinson\'92s 
\i \cf5 Memoirs 
\i0 \cf5 continued to interest, perplex, and charm readers.\cf4 \'94 (3+191?)\
\'93\cf5 The anonymous novel, 
\i \cf5 The Royal Legend: A Tale 
\i0 \cf5 (1808), one of several nineteenth-century fictionalisations of Robinson\'92s royal affair, shows how some of these opposing qualities were read and replayed.\cf4 \'94 (10+191?)\
\'93\cf5 Considerations of Robinson in non-fiction also exhibit traces of her 
\i \cf5 Memoirs
\i0 \cf5 . In particular, many of the nineteenth-century biographical essays on Robinson relish the coexistence of the unfortunate victim of sensibility and the accomplished woman of the stage. Dutton Cook titles his 1865 mini-biography of Robinson \'91Poor Perdita\'92, immediately calling to mind her status as a figure of pathos and misfortune.\cf4 \'94 (13+191?)\
\'93\cf5 A similar interest in analysing Robinson\'92s psychology and dramatizing her life also emerges in Elizabeth Barrington\'92s 
\i \cf5 The Exquisite Perdita
\i0 \cf5 , a story which was serialised, with illustrations, in 
\i \cf5 Nash\'92s and Pall Mall Magazine 
\i0 \cf5 1925-26, and reissued in book form in London in 1926.\cf4 \'94 (15+191?)\
\'93\cf5 Still, the prevailing critical opinion is that Robinson\'92s 
\i \cf5 Memoirs 
\i0 \cf5 ultimately failed to restore her reputation. Cheryl Wanko maintains that Robinson \'91could only salvage [her character] so much\'92 and Laura Engel, that her \'91attempts to rescue her damaged reputation were thwarted\'92.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf5 \up10 37 
\fs32 \cf5 \up0 These claims are true in the sense that Robinson could not erase her scandalous history or escape the public knowledge of her sexual transgression(s), in her lifetime or after. Nevertheless, the nineteenth-century texts considered in this essay indicate some of the ways that Robinson\'92s 
\i \cf5 Memoirs 
\i0 \cf5 influenced the texture of her afterlife. Perhaps a reputation is not something merely to be \'91damaged\'92 or \'91salvaged\'92, but something to be shaped. Women have long been appraised according to what Katharine Kittredge calls \'91the good woman/bad woman dichotomy\'92, and yet one of Robinson\'92s most troubling and appealing features is that she embodies both of these binaries.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf5 \up10 38 
\fs32 \cf5 \up0 She tells us what she is not telling us, and she visually highlights what she conceals.\cf4 \'94 (18+191?)
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \
}