{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Additionally, all of the figures presented in this dissertation are of my own design. My design praxis is informed by the work of Edward Tufte and Alberto Cairo, both of whom provide practical design advice in service of demystifying the visual rhetoric by which graphs present their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A40E6BB8-9F73-4685-A7D5-71FCC436C702"}}{\fldrslt arguments.}} Neither Tufte nor Cairo is a scholar of media studies; rather, they are professional practitioners of \'91data visualization\'92 who reflect critically on the assumptions of their work. Tufte\'92s work primarily strives to correct badly-designed data visualizations, and the dangerous decisions that bad design can lead people to. His most famous example is an analysis of the scientists\'92 report at NASA which led to the ill-fated launch of the Challenger space shuttle in 1986: as his extensive visual analysis argues, the scientists (untrained in graphic design) unintentionally obfuscated crucial information about the day\'92s launch conditions \\cite\{Tufte:2001vw\}. Tufte\'92s six principles of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://816937EE-FFED-44CA-92E3-8B2A87D3EF20"}}{\fldrslt design}} primarily seek to guide undertrained designers away from misleading themselves. Cairo, following on Tufte\'92s work from the perspective of an active journalist, more often turns his attention to successful designs which mislead their audiences intentionally. His forthcoming book, 
\i How Charts Lie
\i0 , addresses the readers of infographics with insights into visual literacy \\cite\{Cairo:2019uf\}. His preceding book, 
\i The Truthful Art
\i0 , addresses the creators of good-faith infographics with insights into visual manipulation \\cite\{Cairo:2016uv\}. Cairo draws a distinction between \'93data visualization\'94 and \'93infographics\'94: \'93an infographic tells the stories that its designer wants to explain, but a data visualization lets people build their own insights based on the evidence provided,\'94 summarized more succinctly as \'93infographics to explain, data visualizations to explore\'94 \\cite\{Cairo:2014tl\}. Using this terminology, my argument will proceed with infographics in the body of the dissertation as curated figures to support my argument, with fuller data visualizations available in Appendix C (\'93Data\'94) to allow further exploration. Following in both Tufte and Cairo\'92s footsteps, I conceive of the figures throughout this dissertation as rhetorical devices. In service of arguing honestly, therefore, my designs \'97 in the body of the dissertation and in Appendix C \'97 are accompanied by footnoted explanations of my design rationale. }