{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 "That, may be of more value to you, than it is to me, therefore I give it you."\
Sandford called up a look of surprise, as if he did not know the letter again.\
"'Tis Lady Elmwood's letter," said Lord Elmwood, "and I return it to you for two reasons."\
Sandford took it, and putting it up, asked fearfully, "What those two reasons were?"\
"First," said he, "because I think it is a relick you may like to preserve\'97my second reason is, that you may shew it to her daughter, and let her know why, and on what conditions, I grant her mother's request."\
"You\'a0
\i do
\i0 \'a0then grant it?" cried Sandford joyfully; "I thank you\'97you are kind\'97you are considerate."\
"Be not hasty in your gratitude; you may have cause to recall it."\
"I know what you have said;" replied Sandford, "you have said you grant Lady Elmwood's request\'97you cannot recall these words, nor I my gratitude."\
"Do you know what her request is?" returned he.\
"Not exactly, my Lord\'97I told you before, I did not; but it is no doubt something in favour of her child."\
"I think not," he replied: "
\b such as it is, however, I grant it: but in the strictest sense of the word\'97no farther\'97and one neglect of my commands, releases me from this promise totally
\b0 ."\
"We will take care, Sir, not to disobey them."\
"Then listen to what they are, for to you I give the charge of delivering them again. Lady Elmwood has petitioned me in the name of her father, (a name I reverence) to give his grandchild the sanction of my protection.
\b  In the literal sense, to suffer that she may reside at one of my seats; dispensing at the same time with my ever seeing her
\b0 ."\
"And you will comply?"\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl260\qr

\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf2 [Pg 190]\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj

\fs24 \cf2 "I will, till she encroaches on this concession, and dares to hope for a greater. I will, while she avoids my sight, or the giving me any remembrance of her. But if, whether by design or by accident, I ever see or hear from her, that moment, my compliance to her mother's supplication ceases, and I abandon her once more."\
Sandford sighed. Lord Elmwood continued:\
"I am glad her request stopped where it did. I would rather comply with her desires than not; and I rejoice they are such as I can grant with ease and honour to myself. I am seldom now at Elmwood castle; let her daughter go there; the few weeks or months I am down in the summer, she may easily in that extensive house avoid me\'97while she does, she lives in security\'97when she does not\'97you know my resolution."\
Sandford bowed\'97the Earl resumed:\
"Nor can it be a hardship to obey this command\'97she cannot lament the separation from a parent whom she never knew\'97" Sandford was going eagerly to prove the error of that assertion, but he prevented him, saying, "In a word\'97without farther argument\'97if she obeys me in this, I will provide for her as my daughter during my life, and leave her a fortune at my death\'97but if she dares\'97"\
Sandford interrupted the menace prepared for utterance, saying, "and you still mean, I suppose, to make Mr. Rushbrook your heir?"\
"Have you not heard me say so? And do you imagine I have changed my determination? I am not given to alter my resolutions, Mr. Sandford; and I thought you knew I was not}