{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In spite of her generosity and dedication, More\'92s activities as an educator and social worker have been harshly criticized by later writers. In her scholarly 1952 biography 
\i Hannah More, 
\i0 the historian M. G. Jones wrote that More\'92s involvement with the Mendip poor is 
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\li720\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 responsible in great part for the unsympathetic portrait of her which has been handed down to posterity. In it she appears as a masterful, dogmatic woman, a high Tory in politics, a rigid Evangelical in reli- gion, using her undeniable talents for organization to dragoon the wretched, ignorant, ill-nourished population into schools which did not attempt to offer opportunity to children and adults to improve their material conditions. (Jones, 152) 
\f1 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 Unable to refute these charges, Jones can offer only the partial excuse that More\'92s attitudes were typical of her time. Like \'93the bulk of her contemporaries,\'94 More attributed poverty \'93to the depravity of [the working] class,\'94 rather than \'93to the failure of the Great Society to realize its responsibilities. . . . Hannah More reacted to the problem of poverty in a manner characteristic of reformers throughout the eighteenth century. To her the problem was a religious, not an economic one\'94 (Jones, 152\'9653). \cf3 (Nardin 268)
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Most of the scholars who have followed Jones condemn More in similar terms. She has generally been portrayed as an unbending Burkean conservative, who undertook to educate the lower classes primarily, if not entirely, as a means of indoctrinating them in the principles of social sub- mission. For example, Patricia Demers argues in a recent study that More\'92s \'93belief in a natural hierarchical social order,\'94 a belief which Demers finds \'93angering in its condescension and immobility,\'94 prevented More from doing anything significant to improve conditions among the poor (Demers, 2). Elizabeth Kowaleski-Wallace takes an even darker view of the relationship between More\'92s Tory convictions and her philanthropic projects. Her 1991 book admits that the More sisters did indeed offer economic aid to their prot\'e9g\'e9s, but argues that their efforts were \'93controlled by a class politic,\'94 rather than by a genuine desire to relieve suffering 
\f1\fs24 \cf3 /
\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 (Kowaleski-Wallace, 72). Though Kowaleski-Wallace acknowledges that \'93literally\'94 it was \'93charitable\'94 of the More sisters to distribute \'93warm clothing\'94 and other material benefits, she unmasks their true motive as the desire \'93to establish a particular kind of bodily discipline\'94 among the poor by forcing them to dress and behave like members of the middle classes (Kowaleski-Wallace, 68). Like Jones, Demers and Kowaleski-Wallace argue that More\'92s attitudes were \'93characteristic\'94 of the period.
\fs16 \up8 1 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 (Nardin 268-9)\
\cf2 There are two problems with these judgments. First, they greatly exaggerate More\'92s dedication to church and state. Though it is true that the \'93mainstream\'94 Tory position incorporated constructive criticism of existing institutions within a generally conservative framework, More was angrier and more deeply critical of both church and state than the scholars discussed above allow. And her disaffection increased markedly during the 1790s. Second, these judgments do not relate More\'92s activities to their historical context in a sufficiently nuanced manner. No \'93characteristic\'94 or \'93typical\'94 attitude toward the poor marked the years from 1789 to 1803. An acrimonious debate over the cause and cure of poverty characterized the period, a debate to which More responded in an idiosyncratic manner. As her own views changed, a period of reaction set in, and this conjunction of events prevented her from negotiating a wholly satisfactory public stance. \cf3 (Nardin 269)
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 The aim of this essay, then, is to re-examine More\'92s opinions about poverty, paying particular attention to the contemporary situation and the cross pressures to which it subjected her. I hope to show that, although More was a less enthusiastic believer in the \'93hierarchical social order\'94 than most scholars have argued, the evasions and compromises she engaged in as a practical reformer helped to damage her reputation with posterity. \cf3  (Nardin 269)
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \
}