{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 As with Robinson and Smith, More has presented scholars a challenge in the quantity and range of writing produced during her lifetime. \'93With a lifetime that spanned the Augustan age to the Victorian age, and a writing career nearly as long, Hannah More can be considered at once both the intellectual child of the Age of Johnson and, in spirit if not quite in chronology, the \'91first Victorian\'92.\'94 (Prior) More\'92s \'93pre-Victorian\'94 evangelical leanings, and especially the Cheap Repository Tracts, have typically attracted the most attention. The Cheap Repository Tracts are a bibliographic challenge: it can be difficult to confirm the author, publication date, or circulation of any given tract, and there are at least a hundred tracts. Additionally, since the twentieth century More has presented an additional challenge in her subject matter: as Scheuermann observes, \'93[t]he problem with More is that while she is a most interesting figure, her ideas are largely repugnant to modern sensibilities. Critics often deal with this inconvenience either by apologizing for their subject or by changing what she says so that she seems closer to us in spirit\'94 (237).\
More\'92s literary afterlife began the year after her death, in 1834, with William Roberts\'92 publication of a collection of her letters. Roberts\'92 editorial choices set the tone for More\'92s biographers by emphasizing her {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://16DB1AA4-F5F6-4E45-8842-956DD2BDD9FD"}}{\fldrslt conservatism}}. His omissions may have improved More\'92s standing in the nineteenth century, but by 1952 historian M. G. Jones already acknowledges \'93the unsympathetic portrait of her which has been handed down to posterity\'94 (Jones 152) due to her approach to social reform. \'93Unable to refute these charges, Jones can offer only the partial excuse that More\'92s attitudes were typical of her time\'94 (Nardin 268). Unlike Smith and Robinson, More\'92s reputation did not necessarily improve when she came to the attention of feminist scholars in the 1980s and 1990s, though work on More did increase. When Pederson writes about More in 1986, the previous scholarship that she cites is all historical: More matters to historians of 1790s politics, and to historians of the evangelical movement (Pederson 85), but Pederson sees little precedent for her own discussion of More\'92s writing as having literary, rather than historical, importance. Pederson argues that \'93only by examining the Cheap Repository within the context of popular literature can we understand the tracts for what they were: a broad evangelical assault on late eighteenth-century popular culture\'94 (88).\

\f1\fs24 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 Pederson\'92s attention to More\'92s literary contexts is shared by other scholars of the 1980s, though only Mitzi Meyers, who in 1986 contextualizes More\'92s didacticism alongside children\'92s literature more generally, seems to form a positive opinion of More. \'93Mitzi Myers, delighted to have found a female eighteenth-century writer who was clearly successful, largely rewrites More so that her \'91didactic\'92 works \'91scarcely stand second to the canonical novel in interest and importance\'92 in terms of \'91what they reveal about women\'92\'94 (Scheuermann 238). Elizabeth Kowaleski-Wallace\'92s 1991 monograph, 
\i Their Fathers' Daughters: Hannah More, Maria Edgeworth, and Patriarchal Complicity
\i0 , better sums up the consensus on More: complicit in patriarchy. Blanch\'92s assessment is that \'93[d]espite the contemporary criticism that More was usurping roles that had traditionally been reserved for men, feminist critics such as Kowaleski-Wallace, Ellen Jordan, Mona Scheurmann, and Eleanor Ty have maligned More as antithetical to the course of social reform and have dismissed her as a passive agent of the patriarchy\'94 (Blanch 87). More\'92s next biographer, Patricia Demers, continues this assessment in her 1996 biography 
\i The World of Hannah More
\i0 . \'93Patricia Demers argues in a recent study that More\'92s \'93belief in a natural hierarchical social order,\'94 a belief which Demers finds \'93angering in its condescension and immobility,\'94 prevented More from doing anything significant to improve conditions among the poor (Demers, 2)\'94 (Nardin 268). The emphasis on More\'92s politics also begins to shift attention away from literary interpretation. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93Writing for More is primarily a mode of instruction, whether in poetry, drama, essay, or tract, conveying either a female or a male voice of authority.\'94 (Demers 109)\
In the early 2000s, scholarship emerges that is more ready to find merit or sympathetic politics in More. Scheuermann describes this phenomenon as critics \'93changing what she says so that she seems closer to us in spirit\'94 (237); Scheuermann herself presents More as reprehensible propagandist. But it is work like Jane Nardin\'92s \'97 which argues that \'93\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 although More was a less enthusiastic believer in the \'91hierarchical social order\'92 than most scholars have argued, the evasions and compromises she engaged in as a practical reformer helped to damage her reputation with posterity\'94 (269) \'97 which takes the more common stance. This is the More who can be inspiring in her importance and innovation, as suggested by titles like Kevin Gilmartin\'92s \'93Hannah More and the Invention of Conservative Culture in Britain\'94 and Anne Stott\'92s 
\i Hannah More: The First Victorian
\i0 , both published in 2003.\
Throughout this history of struggling with More\'92s conservatism, More has been almost synonymous with the Cheap Repository Tracts. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93At the time of the Repository\'92s conception in 1794, More\'92s public profile was that of a playwright and a controversial political commentator, yet, the annals of literary history emphasize her contributions as an educator and religious writer \'85 Indeed, the \'91sublime and immortal\'92 Cheap Repository is the primary reason she is considered by some to have been the most prominent woman evangelical campaigner in England between 1780 and 1810\'94 (Blanch 1).\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  The history of these tracts begins with G.H. Spinney\'92s 1939 bibliography of extant Cheap Repository tracts held by the British Library. Spinney\'92s work filled an important need \'97 \'93Scholarly recognition of the lack of clarity regarding the Cheap Repository bibliography, including authorship, dates back to Augustus De Morgan in 1864 (241-45)\'94 (Blanch 11) \'97 and has remained, eighty years after its publication, an invaluable source. It is perhaps only surpassed by Anna Maree Blanch\'92s 2009 thesis, 
\i A Reassessment of the Authorship of the Cheap Repository Tracts
\i0 . Blanch makes the case that \'93[s]tatements describing Hannah More\'92s contributions have been repeated by generation after generation of scholars uncontested\'94 (12), and describes with evident frustration several works which appear at first not to have based their claims on Spinney, but which, when traced, have their origin in the same single paragraph. Blanch herself has carried out new original research. Blanch identifies 127 tracts in the original run of the Cheap Repository Tracts, of which \'9358 tracts are either conclusively or tentatively attributed to More and 17 to others, while 52 tracts are described as being yet unattributable to any particular author\'94 (Blanch 85).\

\f1\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 [The thing I do in the More chapter: stress-test my earlier systems, see if we can re-evaluate More]}