{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red76\green86\blue89;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c36863\c41176\c42353;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sort of a political case, too, that there\'92s an attempted resistance of capitalism:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Vicar of Wakefield - \'93An accumulation of wealth [must] be the consequence, when [...] more riches flow in from external commerce, than arise from internal industry [...] wealth in all commercial states [accumulates], and all such have hitherto in time become aristocratical. [...] the possessor of accumulated wealth, when furnished with the necessaries and pleasures of life, has no other method to employ the superfluity of his fortune but in purchasing power.\'92\'94\
\
Vicar of Wakefield: \'93I cannot tell whether it is from the number of our penal laws, or the licentiousness of our people, that this country should shew more convicts in a year, than half the dominions of Europe united. Perhaps it is owing to both; for they mutually produce each other. When by indiscriminate penal laws a nation beholds the same punishment affixed to dissimilar degrees of guilt, from perceiving no distinction in the penalty, the people are led to lose all sense of distinction in the crime, and this distinction is the bulwark of all morality: thus the multitude of laws produce new vices, and new vices call for fresh restraints.\'94\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\i\fs32 \cf5 \strokec5 We have all naturally an equal right to the throne: we are all originally equal. [but] as sure as your groom rides your horses, because he is a cunninger animal than they, so surely will the animal that is cunninger or stronger than he, sit upon his shoulders in turn.
\f2\i0\fs24 \cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f1\i\fs32 \cf5 \strokec5 An accumulation of wealth [must] be the consequence, when [...] more riches flow in from external commerce, than arise from internal industry [...] wealth in all commercial states [accumulates], and all such have hitherto in time become aristocratical. [...] the possessor of accumulated wealth, when furnished with the necessaries and pleasures of life, has no other method to employ the superfluity of his fortune but in purchasing power.\'92
\f2\i0\fs24 \cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f1\i\fs32 \cf5 \strokec5 Our family had now made several attempts to be fine; but some unforeseen disaster demolished each [...]. I endeavoured to take the advantage of every disappointment, to improve their good sense [...] \'91You see, my children,\'92 cried I, \'91how little is to be got by attempts to impose upon the world, in coping with our betters. [...] Unequal combinations are always disadvantageous to the weaker side\'92}