{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Mid-18thC (icluding Lind) largely credited a \'93putrid theory of scurvy.\'94\
\'93Most diseases were understood in terms of the inter-relationship between so-called \'91proximate\'92 causes (deranged organs, fluids and manifestations of disease in the body); \'91predisposing causes\'92 such as fatigue and depression; and \'91exciting causes\'92 such as vitiated diet, contagion and atmospheric influences. This complex but flexible framework allowed diseases to be understood in much the same way as other natural phenomena and they were classified like plants and animals into different genera and species. This exercise was generally known as nosology or nosography and many physicians devised their own classifications. In most of these, scurvy was normally listed as one of the \'91putrid diseases\'92; that is, as a disease characterised by putrefaction of the \'91humours\'92 or four substances from which the fluid parts of the body were said to be comprised (blood, phlegm, and black and yellow bile).\'94\
After the 1780s, there was \'93a growing tendency to place the nervous system at the centre of medicine and intellectual life.\'94 \'94Milman concurred with earlier writers that scurvy was a putrid disease, but he did not regard it as having originated from putrefaction of the humours. Instead, he believed that scurvy arose from nervous \'91debility\'92 \'96 a term derived from the writings of John Brown, a rebellious pupil of Cullen.\'94 \'93the majority of works on scurvy published in the decade after Milman's 
\i Enquiry
\i0  were less radical in tone and of comparatively little consequence. They tended to combine the most acceptable and least controversial elements of older works with insights from newer ones, embracing both humoral and nervous theories of disease. Some were practical in nature, but 
\b others were clearly designed to appeal to all tastes and to serve as advertisements for their authors' patent remedie
\b0 s.\'94\
The introduction of lemon juice in 1795 wasn\'92t seen as proof that scurvy was caused by a dietary deficiency, since it went along with a number of other improvements in sailor\'92s health. \'93Scurvy was effectively brought under control by these actions, but naval views of scurvy remained relatively open and there was no administrative reason to insist that they be simplified.\'94\
\
\

\b Post 1790s:
\b0 \
1800s experiences in India (especially imperalism/colonialism) incentivized a move away from understandig scurvy as a dietary disease: \'93Although scurvy did not affect Indians exclusively, it seldom occurred among Europeans except when they had been subjected to abnormal deprivation. But instead of concluding that Indians must be more deprived than Europeans, British medical practitioners tended to attribute the disease to exposure to noxious influences.\'94 \'93What these interpretations had in common was that they drew attention away from diet and the shortages caused by famine. \'85rations for the company's soldiers, and the Bengal Army in particular, had often provoked unrest\'85 If poor diet was officially declared the principal cause of scurvy then the company could be held responsible for this, too.\'94 Later, however, \'93the old environmental paradigm of scurvy had been found inconvenient. Rather than abandoning remote stations previously reckoned to be prone to scurvy on account of their climate, an effort was made to cultivate vegetables locally and to make up for deficiencies with extra supplies.\'94\
\
\'93The persistence of a reasonably broad view of scurvy thus presented few difficulties for the navy or, for many years, in India, but it posed a significant threat to the new penitentiary system in Britain and parts of scurvy's etiological framework were excised as a result. \'85 What these various initiatives show is that 
\b the natural history of scurvy was closely and inextricably linked to administrative considerations,
\b0  be they the principles of penal reform or the strategic implications of withdrawal from remote but crucially important outposts of empire. \'85 In prisons, 
\b political expediency dictated a very definite view of what caused scurvy
\b0  and how it was to be remedied. Lacking the constraints imposed by these administrative requirements, however, practitioners in other contexts continued to speculate widely over the causes of scurvy. \'85 These widely differing accounts of the genesis and therefore the prevention of scurvy persisted into the First World War\'94}