{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'94Jestbooks and comic pamphlets are notoriously fugitive texts. They were messily and haphazardly produced. Large numbers give no date in the im-print, and their publishers used all the most artful pu
\f1 \uc0\u57381 
\f0   ng techniques, includ-ing wildly in
\f1 \uc0\u57383 
\f0  ated edition numbers. Ongoing work at the English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC) is now revealing the extent and diversity of bibliographic guesswork that went on as these books entered collections around the world. Even with easier access to newspaper advertisements and book trade data, it has not always been possible to establish 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  rm publication dates or con
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  rm edition numbers. Perhaps half the relevant ESTC dates are conjectural, many of them derived from the old British Museum Catalogue of Printed Books and now repeated in Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO). I have used none of these estimates without external con
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  rmation. Occasional  corrections to ESTC are made silently\'94 (xii)\
\
\'93So much good scholarship on sentimental lit-erature has e
\f1 \uc0\u57373 
\f0  ectively created a countercanon (certainly it is hard now to put ourselves back into the situation Terry Eagleton described in 
\f1 \uc0\u57364 \u57365 \u57366 \u57363 
\f0 , when he wondered whether \'93we may now once again be able to read Samuel Richard-son\'94).3 In anthologies, literary histories, and syllabi, the middle decades of the eighteenth century have switched wholesale from the old Age of Johnson into the new Age of Sensibility.4 Exactly how all this happened\'97how changes in British history coincided with new directions in the history of ideas, evolving critical practices in English departments, and changing demands on the acad-emy as a whole\'97is a fascinating but hugely complex question. The simpli
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ed answer is that the politeness-sensibility paradigm is a compound formation: a critical mass of scholars has now focused on this cluster of phenomena, just as a previous generation decided that Johnson was the de
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ning or most interest-ing 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  gure of his age.\'94 (3)\
\
\'93one of the recurring themes of this book: the sheer slowness with which ordinary su
\f1 \uc0\u57373 
\f0  erings\'97the unheroic miseries of pov-erty, the humiliations of disease, the private trauma of a rape victim\'97became worthy of sympathy and serious aesthetic representation.\'94 (4)\
\
\'93This new historical work reminds us that all the cautions about delicacy, benevolence, sexual modesty, and the proper use of time would hardly be necessary if women were already following them.\'94 (6)\
\
\'94More important, eighteenth-century scholars have been warning against teleology for generations. Poetry specialists have repeatedly insisted that we will never understand mid-eighteenth-century po-etry unless we stop looking for anticipations of romanticism. Scholars of early women\'92s 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction long ago demonstrated that we have to put aside narratives about the rise of realism if we are make sense of Behn, Manley, Haywood, and other long-scorned authors.This single-genre scholarship provides invaluable demonstrations that anyone aspiring to a genuinely historicist picture of the literary past must try to put aside, at least temporarily, their knowledge of what happened next. My focus in this study is not a genre but a slice of time, the thirty years 
\f2 1740
\f0 \'96
\f2 70
\f0 . \'85 In looking at reprints and restagings, I am clearly opting for the 
\i parlia-ment
\i0  model of literary history rather than the 
\i parade
\i0 : I look at the full range of texts available at this historical moment, inherited as well as new.\'94 (10)\
\'94In retrospect, politer manners and more sympathetic attitudes toward others seem like the way of the future, but many contemporaries dismissed them as passing a
\f1 \uc0\u57373 
\f0  ectations or fruitless attempts to undermine British manhood. The same cautions apply to literary history: a number of contemporaries did recognize the novel as a \'93new species of writ-ing,\'94 but the genre\'92s long-term dominance was far from obvious. Indeed, by the late 
\f2 1750
\f0 s many people thought the fad was over, as they watched 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction degrading into a mass of derivative texts.\'94 (11)\
\
\'93Jestbooks have generally been categorized as \'93popular\'94 texts. And certainly one\'92s initial reaction is to see them as artifacts of low culture, examples of the vulgar taste from which the \'93polite\'94 classes were self-consciously separating themselves. \'85 The problem is that none of these nasty witticisms comes from the cheap-est or crudest forms of print. Most jestbooks were produced for middle- and upper-class readers: at 
\f2 1
\f0 s. 
\f2 6
\f0 d., 
\f2 3
\f0 s., or even 
\f2 5
\f0 s., they were far beyond the reach of a popular audience.\'94 (20)\
\'93The only truly popular jestbooks were chapbook versions produced by the Dicey family and other printers and, beneath them, all sorts of even more diminutive pamphlets of perhaps a single quarto sheet, the work of ephemera publishers and provin-cial booksellers.\'94 (21)\
\'93On the basis of price alone, mainstream duodecimo jestbooks were clearly produced for those with considerable disposable income\'97even artisans or small shopkeepers would have struggled to scrape together the necessary shil-lings. These books appealed to readers very di
\f1 \uc0\u57373 
\f0  erent from those who bought the Dicey chapbooks. Many jestbook situations are speci
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  c to urban readers with money\'94 (30)\
\'93we are still far less familiar with the duodecimo jestbooks and comic miscellanies put out by mainstream London booksellers\'97those producing the classics, sacred literature, expen-sive scienti
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  c or philosophical works, and what we now think of as polite liter-ature.\'94 (22)\
\'93In spite of their extravagant boasts of originality, these new titles were invariably plagiarized wholesale from previous books, hastily thrown together by minor actors or printer\'92s hacks who were down on their luck.\'94 (22)\
\'93The typical book gathers several hundred jokes, in no particular order, followed by a dizzying array of other amusements.\'94 (23)\
\
\'93jestbooks were produced, in this age when dullness was the worst of social vices, as how-to manuals for those wanting to shine in com-pany. And here, having mentioned the all-male venues (drinking parties, urban rambles), it seems important to emphasize how much of this humor envisages a mixed or entirely female audience and how many of the implied speakers are female. Women as well as men read jestbooks before social events. \'93I fancy, madam, you have been reading a jest book this morning,\'94 says Mr. Burchell to an unusually witty Mrs. Primrose in The Vicar of Wake
\f1 \uc0\u57347 
\f0  eld.\'94 (36)\
\
\'93Given their prominence in the eighteenth-century book trade, jestbooks and related comic imprints are now extremely rare. One repeatedly 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  nds references\'97in newspapers, bookseller\'92s catalogs, end-page advertise-ments, and printers\'92 ledgers\'97to texts of which there are now no records. Even if one assumes high levels of pu
\f1 \uc0\u57381 
\f0   ng, the number of lost texts is phenomenal. More starkly than most print genres, jestbooks remind us that survival rates are never a reliable guide to the original prevalence and distribution of any book.87 They also invite us to re
\f1 \uc0\u57383 
\f0  ect on the accidents and processes by which less appealing historical documents survive or perish. At the most basic level, the scarcity of jestbooks is a material phenomenon: sold in sheets and carried about in pockets, they were read to the point of disintegration. But at least as important, such publications were hardly ever collected, in any of the multiple senses of that term. \'85 Among comparable categories of publication\'97almanacs, newspapers, halfpenny bal-lad sheets, Nonconformist tracts, economic pamphlets\'97ephemeral comic texts may be the least likely to have survived. (Compare the fate of didactic or religious texts, preserved from the very beginning in public collections and invaluable private ones like Dr. Williams\'92s Library.)\'94 (43)\
\'93The obscure hero of this project is Walter Newton Henry Harding (
\f2 1883
\f0 \'96
\f2 1973
\f0 ), a cinema organist and music-hall pianist from Chicago who amassed almost three hundred early jest- and songbooks and left them to the Bodleian Library. Cruelty and Laughter would have been immensely more di
\f1 \uc0\u57381 
\f0   cult without them.88 In 
\f1 \uc0\u57363 \u57360 \u57364 \u57364 
\f0 , however, one might be more sanguine about this and other long-standing gaps in the human record. Databases and digitization projects now o
\f1 \uc0\u57373 
\f0  er ever easier access to rare and scattered texts; the remaining barriers are more institutional and disciplinary\'94 (44)\
\
\'93Few discoveries have remained so striking throughout this project as the vol-ume of comic 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction in the midcentury print market. Well-known sentimen-tal or didactic novels\'97Clarissa, David Simple, Millenium Hall, The Vicar of Wak e
\f1 \uc0\u57347 
\f0  eld\'97were surrounded if not swamped, when they 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  rst appeared, by playful \'93lives\'94 and \'93adventures.\'94 (250)\
\'93Few scholars have read any of these books, but there are dozens, if not hun-dreds, more where they came from\'97cheerful memoir novels in which a skel-etal plot and a rudimentary central character are used to string together a se-quence of broad comic incidents.\'94 (251) - talking about \'93Ramble novels\'94\
\'93Distinctly trashy as most now seem, ramble novels were in no way distinguished\'97neither by the book trade nor by reviewers or readers\'97from what are now accepted as literary novels. They were published in the same duodecimo format and sold for the same price of 
\f2 3
\f0 s. per volume as the canonical 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction of these years.\'94 (251)\
\'94it is shocking to discover how little we still know about the noncanonical 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction of the age.\'94 (251)\
\'93But no one has much to say about the hundreds of less de
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  nable, appeal-ing, or polemically useful texts: piles and piles of droll narratives about sailors, orphans, rascally apprentices, and Irish fortune-hunters.\'94 (252)\
\
\'93How bad are these books? Judged by formal-realist standards, they inevitably fall short. One 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  nds glaring chronological and geographic mistakes (Madeira in the Caribbean, Milan in the Low Countries) and inconsistencies in the oc-cupations and even names of important characters. The heroine is introduced as Lucy but then reappears in volume 
\f1 \uc0\u57361 
\f0  as Louisa. After ten years as a slave in Algiers, the hero somehow returns a younger man. Authors evidently felt no shame in admitting that they had forgotten to plan for a recognition scene or other major plot twist (\'93I should have mention\'92d before, that, at parting, he had made her a Present of a Tortoiseshell Snu
\f1 \uc0\u57373 
\f0  -box set in Gold, and his Picture in the Lid of it\'94).34 Huge sections of one novel reappear in other ti-tles, with no more than super
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  cial changes. The Fleet Street printer Henry Woodgate reissued most of The Adventures of Jack Smart (
\f2 1756
\f0 ) as The For-tunate Imposter (
\f2 1759
\f0 ), simply renaming the central character and hardly car-ing whether anyone noticed. Such practices reveal in an instant the intensely seasonal nature of the midcentury 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction market. \'93From the trade\'92s point of view,\'94 says the book historian John Feather, \'93the signi
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  cance of the novel lay not in its literary merit but in its essential triviality,\'94 the way it so quickly made room for more of the same.35 These were disposable texts, intended to be read once, discussed for six or seven months, and then forgotten.\'94 (265)\
\'93Ramble novels are almost without desire, as a narratologist might say. There are no important mysteries to be resolved, no hermeneutic plot. Who left the infant heroine on the woodpile? Will Jack ever 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  nd his father? Such questions inevitably cross our minds, but identity is never the ongoing enigma that it is in Tom Jones or Evelina. Will the hero recover his lovely Lydia? Will she forgive him for trying to assault her in the hackney coach? It hardly matters: the heroines of these novels are so 
\f2 fl
\f0 at and unproductive of sympathy that any young woman with \'a3
\f2 12
\f0 ,
\f2 000
\f0  will tie up the plot just as well.What really sticks in the mind is the riotous, anarchic comedy of these books, most of it entirely irrelevant to plot. Neither narratology nor our ev-eryday critical vocabulary o
\f1 \uc0\u57373 
\f0  ers any positive terminology for such noninstru-mental content.\'94 (266)\
\
\'93Perhaps half these texts\'97a surprising proportion given so much recent emphasis on the instructive functions of early 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction\'97make no claim to be anything more than cures for the spleen or diversions for \'93vacant hours.\'94 Long titles and advertisements persistently stress the books\'92 \'93sundry humour-ous Anecdotes,\'94 their abundance of \'93laughable Incidents\'94 and \'93Entertaining Characters.\'94 Another half include a stock didactic preface and intermittent moralizing for those who needed it.\'94 (268)\
\

\b \'93Most unsettling of all, even the nastiest rambles might include genuinely sentimental episodes.\'94
\b0  (269)\
\
\'93With the high costs and narrow pro
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  t margins of eighteenth-century book production, authors and publishers clearly needed to attract as many readers as possible. The more haphazard of these novels read almost like miscellanies, themselves such a pro
\f2 fi
\f0 table part of the midcentury print market. But even more uni
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ed texts include wildly inconsistent materials without the slight-est narrative pretext. \'85 And one would be wrong to attribute such diversity to lack of skill: abundance and variety were important selling points. Title pages and advertisements promise plenitude: the main narrative is \'93interspers\'92d with\'94 additional attractions, \'93A great Variety of Incidents,\'94 \'93Sundry very curious Particulars.\'94\'94 (269)\
\
\'93Jerry Buck, David Ranger, Betty Ireland: why are these popular and pro
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  t-able texts so entirely absent from working assumptions about early English 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction? As with jestbooks or comic periodicals, material survival is itself a ma-jor factor: many ramble novels are now exceptionally rare, surviving in single or imperfect copies, with pages missing and covers torn o
\f1 \uc0\u57373 
\f0  . \'85. A striking number, perhaps 
\f2 12
\f0 \'96
\f2 15
\f0  percent, haven\'92t survived at all, being known only by reviews or advertisements. At the same time, the selection processes of literary history were already begin-ning in the late eighteenth century. None of these texts, not even blockbust-ers like Joe Thompson, make it into early nineteenth-century collections or histories of the novel by Scott, Barbauld, and John Dunlop. A century later, when the 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  rst professional English literature scholars began their rehabilita-tion of eighteenth-century 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction, they obviously had no use for hackwork. It was hard enough to convince people that Defoe, Fielding, and Smollett were worth reading, let alone these coarse and amoral formula 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ctions. A half century later, ramble 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction had no place in teleologies like Ian Watt\'92s\'97argu-ments that made eighteenth-century texts respectable by relating them for-ward to the great realist and modernist novels.Times have now changed. Few professional scholars talk about literature in the old exalted sense, and aesthetic judgments are seldom relevant. We know what forward-looking perspectives do to the past. The 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction canon has now been expanded to admit all manner of minority voices, most notably the dozens of women writers who made such major contributions to early 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction. But no one has had much to say about ramble novels, and this silence reveals just how few adequate methods we still have for dealing with frankly distasteful parts of the historical record. Recovery projects and calls to expand the canon depend on empathetic perspectives. As John Guillory pointed out more than a decade ago, they conceive of texts as representing a community in the way that politicians represent their constituents. The critic\'92s job is to speak for each marginalized author and the marginalized communities they represent.\'94 (277)\
\
\'93Monographs by Margaret Cohen and Katie Trumpener both champion unrecognized precursors of canonical au-thors and suggest that this suppressed tradition would have been preferable to what actually developed. \'85 None of this rhetoric is available for ramble 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction. Who wants to champion Jack Smart or The History of Pudica? Claiming long-term in
\f1 \uc0\u57383 
\f0  uence is not an option either. One might no doubt trace connections to Egan, Marryat, or Bulwer Lytton, but in truth these texts are dead ends\'97without in
\f1 \uc0\u57383 
\f0  uence and stubbornly of their time. Few readers of midcentury comic 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ction\'97or any of the other forgotten rubbish of this study\'97could feel much regret that literary history left them behind.\'94 (279)\
\
\'93Oliver Goldsmith was a famously unattractive man\'97with a face scarred by childhood smallpox, a protruding forehead, receding chin, and noticeably awkward physique. His biographers record constant cruel references to his \'93monkey face\'94 and \'93gro-tesque orang-outang 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  gure.\'94 A well-known story from the Johnsonian Miscel-lanies points not just to the acceptability of such comments but to their social currency\'97their value to everyday readjustments of the social pecking order. Asked to make a toast to the ugliest person she knows, a young lady raises her glass to Goldsmith. This so amuses a second lady that she reaches across the table to shake hands, \'93expressing some desire of being better acquainted with her, it being the 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  rst time they met.\'94 Johnson saw the point immediately: \'93Thus the Ancients, on the commencement of their Friendships, used to sac-ri
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  ce a beast between them.\'94\'94 (85)\
\'93 Contemporary accounts of accomplished disabled or ugly people invariably describe a moment at which one suddenly saw that they were not just a hunchback or hideous cripple. \'85 Oliver Goldsmith was just another awkward ugly hack until The Traveller convinced people that he was a great poet: \'93I never more shall think Dr. Goldsmith ugly,\'94 said Mrs. Chol-mondeley to Johnson.\'94 (103)\
\
\'93\'93Lewd whispers, groans of contrition burlesqued, winking and coughing\'94: this response to a sermon from Goldsmith\'92s vicar of Wake
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  eld seems to record familiar impieties.63 The jestbooks are full of jokes about long, tedious sermons and preachers who put the congregation to sleep (Reverend Drone, Doctor Drowsy, and many more). Righteous moralist that he was, the local vicar cried out for de
\f1 \uc0\u57383 
\f0  ating humiliations\'97 nothing was fun-nier than stealing his wig or 
\f1 \uc0\u57374 
\f0  nding him in bed with the village whore. Priest-baiting was an old game in English comedy\'94 (179)}