{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;
\red253\green162\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;
\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Ian Gadd argues that critiques of digital databases \cf3 are \cf2 often not based on the right grounds: \'93the real risk of scholarly misuse of \cf4 [Early English Books Online]\cf2  is less to do with the physical features of early printed books that it fails, one way or another, to represent (problematic though these are) and more to do with a lack of an informed knowledge of what exactly EEBO 
\i is
\i0 .\'94 (Gadd 682)\cf4  The observation applies far beyond EEBO: although it is easiest to critique digital resources for their failures to perfectly replicate the full tactile experience of the books they simulate, or for failing to contain every possible book, those critiques are fundamentally futile. \cf4 \cb5 [What other critiques are possible?] \cf4 \cb1 This chapter examines the history, textual selection, and implicit model of six databases: the ESTC, ECCO, ECCO-TCP, Project Gutenberg, Google Books, and HathiTrust. I explore how each database encodes its assumptions about what literature is, who it is for, and how it should be used. I historicize these models in the context of the institutional infrastructure behind the creation of each resource, particularly the economic factors driving development. I argue that the differences between each database\'92s literary model are best understood as the result of different strategies to navigate conflict between commercial and anti-commercial values. In parallel, I follow Charlotte Smith through each of these databases, to explore the impact of their different literary models. Very different works by Smith are available in each resource, and in very different formats. Smith\'92s most major works are not readily available, suggesting that these literary archives lag behind scholarly consensus about her importance. The chapter concludes with a discussion of new developments in Optical Character Recognition (OCR) technology, which can be used to transcribe texts from page images. \cf4 \cb5 [OCR BLUF.]\cf2 \cb1 \
\
}