{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 The John Johnson Collection itself illuminates the path to preservation which is necessary for a work like \'93Consolation for the scorbutic\'85\'94 to survive two hundred years and remain findable by scholars.\
John Johnson, as an individual, somewhat eccentrically collected \'93everything which would ordinarily go into the waste paper basket after use, everything printed which is not actually a book\'94 (Johnson, qtd in \'93Introduction,\'94  p 9).\
\
\
\'93Johnson was no defender of the indiscriminate collection of ephemera. He was to write to Gibson of the \'91deterrent lessons...to be read in the Nicholson ephemera in the Bodleian which were valueless in themselves and which could only have been destroyed if they had not become of value by scientific incorporation...\'92. What saddened him was the failure of such institutions as the Bodleian to see the value in the \'91scientific\'92 approach to such material.\'94 (\'93Introduction p 9)\
\'93At the end he gave it as his opinion that the principal reason why we appeared to have some prospect of success was that we had broken clean away from all library technique which could not be adapted to such a purpose as this. In his opinion only those standing outside library technique and viewing the problem from a detached and experimental point of view had a chance of success. For instance, a library's card index of such a collection would be as big as the collection itself.\'94 (Johnson qtd in \'93Introduction\'94, p 11)\
\
Here, too, economic conditions are core constituating factors: Johnson concludes that \'93it is indisputable that this collection could not have been formed economically, or at all, except by attachment to this Printing Business\'94 (qtd in \'93Introduction, p 12), and he also discusses the importance of not announcing his intentions as a collector, so as to avoid driving up prices through increased demand.\
\
Johnson danced a balancing act in taking a non-library approach while also relying on the university/library value system to preserve what he was building: \'93Both the Press and the University were mentioned in the solicitation or acknowledgement of any gift, and it was laid down that there was to be no private property in these collections of any kind whatever. Nor were there to be any acts of dealing or sale.\'94 (Johnson qtd \'93Introduction\'94 p 11)\
\'93Thus the property of the University (through its Printing House) in the collections is absolute and has been secured at a very small net cost.\'94 (Johnson qtd \'93Introduction\'94 p 12)\
\
Johnson actually embraces the happenstance of uneven survivorship rates as a core pre-filtering practice to make historic archives sustainable: \'93what I may call contemporary collecting is out of the question. War\'96 time A.R.P. ephemera alone would fill room\'96space many times the whole existing space of the Sanctuary.... Thus we have made the outbreak of war the main terminus ante quem. There will still be supplementary acquisitions filling gaps in the past, and I hope that the future may be tempted to add out of the unconscious selection of the present, just as we in the present have added out of the unconscious selection of the past. This unconscious selection must always be the foundation of any collection which is both manageable and typical.\'94 (Johnson qtd \'93Introduction\'94 12)\
\
\'93Late in 1967 the suggestion was made that perhaps the time had at last come when Johnson's Collection might be transferred to the Bodleian. For a number of years there had been a realization on the part of the Library that previous policies had been mistaken, that Johnson had demonstrated this, and that if his Collection was to be exploited it needed the setting of a major library. The Delegates of the Press and the Curators of the Bodleian welcomed the idea, and the transfer took place in May 1968.\'94 (\'93Introduction\'94 13)\
It was then exhibited in 1971, with a catalogue published.}