{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Dear Dr. Kahan and Dr. Menon,\
\
I hope I can sneak in under the wire for your Friday 13
\fs14 \super th
\fs22 \nosupersub  deadline, to be considered for your MLA panel of \'93Queer Lists.\'94 An abstract of my proposed paper follows. I have also attached an abbreviated 2-page CV (focused on my research), in case that will be useful to you. Please let me know if I can provide any additional information which would be helpful, and many thanks for your consideration.\
\
Best,\
Lawrence Evalyn
\b \
\
Tentative title:
\b0  \'93\cf3 Reparative Algorithm Studies\cf2 \'94\cf3 \
\

\b \cf2 Abstract:
\b0  \cf3 My work takes a critical algorithm studies approach to digital databases of eighteenth century literature, examining the structural assumptions of the most-used resources (including some that scholars don\'92t like to admit to using). \cf2 I close-read the database structures, file formats, and historical documentation for the English Short Title Catalogue, Eighteenth Century Collections Online, the Text Creation Partnership, HathiTrust, Project Gutenberg, and Google Books, to examine how each resource\'92s algorithmic definition of a \'93book\'94 (and the information that might matter about a book) is shaped by the material, historical conditions of each organization\'92s development. \cf3 My initial research question was, by Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick\'92s definition, a classically paranoid approach: I sought to expose the under-representation of women\'92s writing underlying apparently \'93neutral\'94 digital \cf2 infrastructures\cf3 . This question carried the combined urgency and futility of paranoid critique: urgent, because an unfair database would expose an unfair society; and futile, since the research could only be motivated by the conviction that its answer was already known. My paper will touch \cf2 briefly \cf3 on some specifics of this research and my findings, as the basis for a broader discussion of critical algorithm studies, and the project of imagining reparative algorithm studies.\cf2 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf3 One of the current problems of critical algorithm studies is how difficult it is to move from critique to action: it seems that no matter how carefully we dissect the flaws of oppressive computational systems, we cannot opt out of them.\cf2  Excellent work by scholars like Wendy Hui Kyong Chun and Safiya Noble, for example, meticulously historicizes computational systems, and there is real value to the denaturalization of the systems they thus reveal. But this work relies on the paranoid logic of exposure, and I am interested in other attitudes. In my examination of digital infrastructures for eighteenth century studies, I take a brief detour through Marxist thinking (via Bourdieu and John Guillory) to diagnose a deep tension between capitalist and anticapitalist value systems as the likely cause of the flaws in these systems today. I then am to move beyond the obvious paranoid critiques prompted by this observation. I confess that, at this stage, this is the point at which my thinking remains speculative\'97 but I feel certain that the right direction lies in queer strategies of creative reappropriation, subversion, and resistance.\
\
}