{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Generosity is often assumed to be an affect which it is only possible to assume in conjunction with textual intimacy; that is to say, reparative reading is often assumed to entail 
\i close
\i0  reading. However, I contend that generosity can occur at any scale. Rita Felski provides valuable theoretical insight for reparative readers who do not wish to be (only) close readers. Felski, in her article \'93After Suspicion\'94 and then further in her monograph 
\i The Limits of Critique
\i0 , frames the core question animated by Sedgwick\'92s conundrum as \'93Can we be postcritical \'97 as distinct from uncritical?\'94 \\cite\{Felski:z11z1lQx p.151\}. For Felski, the answer lies in attending seriously to literary attachments, including our own attachments as critics. Felski\'92s approach to these attachments is essentially sociological, drawing heavily on Bruno Latour\'92s actor-network-theory \\cite\{Latour:2005vh\}, and thus involves almost no close reading. Felski does accord serious attention to textual effects in her work under the umbrella of what she terms\'93neophenomenology,\'94 as first described in her \'93Everyday Aesthetics\'94 \\cite\{Felski:2009um\}, does accord more attention to textual effects. (This is where the \'93neo\'94 arrives in \'93neophenomenology,\'94 as Felski distinguishes herself from earlier phenomenologists who treat textual content as almost irrelevant to the meaning-making carried out by readers.) Nonetheless, rather than explicating individual texts, Felski\'92s neophenomenological work seeks to address the phenomenon of reading itself. My own work is neither sociological nor neophenomenological, but like Felski I undertake reparative, postcritical reading without close reading.}