{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Despite the crucial importance of corpus-building to the interpretation of \'93distant reading\'94 research, it is often extremely difficult to know what is in a corpus. Even large institutional resources used by many scholars provide little context for their choices of what to include or exclude. These hidden choices are particularly problematic when historical selection factors might have led to the creation of databases which re-create social inequalities. I focus specifically on writing printed in England between 1789 and 1799, to explore how works from this eleven-year \'93decade\'94 have been selected as important, literary, or popular. For this period, the English Short Title Catalogue provides basic bibliographic data for nearly 52,000 titles, but the Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation Partnership corpus of XML-encoded full texts includes fewer than 500 titles. This difference raises the question: why were the other 51,500 titles 
\i not
\i0  considered worth the investment of scholarly effort? And with particular urgency: do the most invested-in resources underrepresent women? My experiments examine six major databases to answer these questions: The English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC), Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO), the Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation Partnership (ECCO-TCP), Google Books, Project {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CB3DF55D-DDCC-47ED-AD50-6C0DB10110E4"}}{\fldrslt Gutenberg,}} and HathiTrust. For each database, I download their holdings identified as printed in England {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://937A99CB-7E5F-49A6-9665-BB065FDF0A71"}}{\fldrslt 1789-1799.}} I identify how many titles the database attributes to each year. I calculate how many works are attributed to male, female, or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1A8547AF-D458-437A-B065-BD0BD3122C5C"}}{\fldrslt unknown authors.}} These very simple pieces of information, when they differ widely between {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EB81BC00-F118-46AA-B887-689938D66B92"}}{\fldrslt databases,}} provides the basis for an initial analysis of the assumptions and limitations of each database. I then examine the contents of each database more closely, to compare the inclusion of broad categories of writing like poetry, drama, prose fiction, and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0ABC4D28-2E14-4B44-A89F-14F3E7698237"}}{\fldrslt ephemera.}} Identifying these categories of writing within each corpus reveals a predictable preference for \'93literary\'94 forms such as novels and poetry in the smaller databases. This preference for particular kinds of writing might explain changes in gender representation of smaller databases. If the novel is the domain of women, for example, a corpus can underrepresent women by under\cf2 -\cf0 representing novels. Or it could include a representative number of novels, but disproportionately include novels by men. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C2924EB0-88FF-4B49-A416-8F46B5C14D50"}}{\fldrslt My investigation allows me to identify the patterns of selection.}} To ground my analysis in specifics, I take Charlotte Smith\cf2  as a case study\cf0  author. \cf2 Smith has a\cf0  long histor\cf2 y\cf0  of contentious reception, rooted in debates about seriousness, popularity, and women\'92s writing. I revisit them to see how \cf2 her\cf0  career\cf2  and reception\cf0  might be interpreted through a new lens. I do so, in part, to challenge the contrast drawn between \'91popular\'92 and \'91serious\'92 writing, especially in the historical evaluation of women\'92s writing as literary.}