{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 The many criticisms which Klein compiles, Bode argues, \'93describe the symptoms \'96 not the essence \'96 of a problem, which in fact inheres in Moretti\'92s and Jockers\'92s common neglect of [\'85] the bibliographical and editorial approaches that explore and explicate the literary-historical record,\'94 a neglect which is itself \'93not an effect of importing data into literary history but is inherited from the New Criticism\'94 \\cite\{Bode:2017gb\}.\cf2 \
\
\cf0 Klein also suggests a change in how models are formed: \'93Instead of first asking what 
\i can
\i0  be modeled\'97what phenomena we can track at scale\'97we might instead ask: what might be 
\i hidden
\i0  in this corpus? And are there methods we might use to bring out significant texts, or clusters of words, that the eye cannot see?\'94 \\cite\{Klein:2018to\}.\strike \strikec3 The field of \'93digital humanities,\'94 now several scholarly generations into its development, has entered the phase in which so many scholars are carrying out \'93DH\'94 research that {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://40E7313A-B9F8-4CCD-A893-BA76DFF9403D"}}{\fldrslt no universally-acceptable definition of \'93DH\'94 can exist}}. Many definitions are fundamentally {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B7E7ABFB-6C66-408F-A421-0E29E8BA2D58"}}{\fldrslt methodological.}} These definitions describe what might be called a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B97C0E98-548C-4242-B5A9-20277D2D5EC9"}}{\fldrslt \'93computational humanities.\'94}} Other definitions take up the new importance of digitality in daily {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FDC7C648-F287-4044-9AE8-A4BD78C0A941"}}{\fldrslt life.}} This kind of work is increasingly described as \'93digital cultural studies.\'94 In positioning this work as a \'93DH\'94 dissertation, I might at first glance seem to belong squarely within the first framework, that of the \'93computational humanities.\'94 To be sure, much of this work is intended to apply existing computational methodologies to conduct {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FA87E33D-4BAC-48D0-8703-9218BCB04114"}}{\fldrslt otherwise old-fashioned literary research}}. My objects of study are by no means contemporary. Several of my contributions, too, are purely methodological in nature, in the development of new code and new guidelines for computational research using particular digital resources. \strike0\striked0 However, as a fuller discussion of Johanna Drucker\'92s distinction between \'93data\'94 and \'93capta\'94 will elucidate later in this chapter, no computational research exists separately from a specific, local, culturally-defined context. Accordingly, my computational research into eighteenth-century literature and my development of new computational methodologies are both inevitably tied to \'93digital culture.\'94 My results often have more to say about contemporary digital archives, and the history of literary record-keeping, than they do about the eighteenth century itself. I therefore rely on an extensive body of work in cultural digital studies to examine not only the eighteenth century, but eighteenth century studies.}