{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 ESTC T27451: 	4p. ;  8\uc0\u8304  An advertisement, with testimonials.\
Facsimiles in both ECCO and John Johnson: is it the Johnson copy which made it to ECCO?\
This one is held at the BL, Oxford, 
\i and
\i0  Gottingen. The ECCO scan comes from the BL.\
\
It presents itself a little like \'93news\'94 responding to the prevalence of fakes (which may actually have been a real problem?). Emphasizes what the \'93correct\'94 seal will look like and say on an authentic bottle. Offers a reward of TEN THOUSAND POUNDS (all caps, at the head of a column) to anyone who can produce another recipe \'97 \'93In fact, he will answer 
\i with his life
\i0 , that no such instrument exists!!!\'94 and that therefore all other cures \'93remain, uniformly, unsupported with experimental facts, or references of cure.\'94 (1)\
Most time is taken up with testimonials, all of which have names & dates attached. They appear to be in numerical order, \'93beginning with the 168
\fs14 \super th
\fs22 \nosupersub  above mentioned, which closed Mr. Hayman\'92s public list of acknowledgements to the end of the year 1799.\'94 (1)\
Lots of strange medical assumptions in the explanation of how the drug works (and, indeed, how the disease works) \'97 but kind of consonant with Zoonomia?\
He\'92s also selling another product for \'93the nervous and debilitated of either sex\'94 which again emphasizes not being misled into purchasing imitations, and specifies that he has the sole patent for \'93Vandour\'92s Nervous Pills\'94 (page 4) \'97 he repeats a notice originally published in 1782.\
Interesting that in neither case does he claim to have developed the medicine, but still insists on his authority & right to monopolize it.}