{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green25\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red10\green0\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;
\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The first volume is divided into 40 sections, on a range of topics related to the body, the senses, and disease. He classifies bodily and sensory motions as "irritative," "sensitive," "voluntary," and "associate." He presents theories on the production and classes of ideas, and seeks to explain the causes and mechanisms of sleep, reverie, vertigo, and drunkenness. He then discusses anatomy, especially the operation of the circulatory system and various glands. Chapter 29, "The Retrogra\cf4 d\cf2 e Motions of the Absorbent Vessels," is Erasmus Darwin's translation of his late son\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Darwin_(medical_student)"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Charles Darwin}}'s dissertation. These anatomical chapters are followed by four chapters on diseases, which draws on his classification of four types of motion to identify four types of diseases: those of irritation, of sensation, of volition, and of association. Two chapters, "Of the Oxygenation of the Blood in the Lungs and Placenta" and "Of Generation" develop his theories about human reproduction, including observations related to evolution. The final chapter in the first volume is a reprint of a paper by another of Erasmus Darwin's sons,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Darwin"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Robert Darwin}}, about ocular spectra.\
The second volume is focused solely on classifying diseases into classes, orders, and genera. The book is divided into four major sections, based on the four classes of disease: diseases of irritation, sensation, volition, and association.}