{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 This dissertation in concerned with the process by which texts do or don\'92t \'91enter\'92 into \'91canons\'92 of writings, particularly in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://806E0597-B970-464E-9D40-34E390F14B40"}}{\fldrslt the heightened political environment of England}} in the 1790s. In service of this goal, this dissertation seeks to determine, in as minute detail as possible, what the print landscape in England 1789-99 was actually like. It also seeks to explain, in equally minute detail, why this task of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://231629CA-23C1-4C4C-98EB-98B5BF42248D"}}{\fldrslt \'91objective\'92 historical recovery is}}, in fact, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://32685984-1BC8-4A5F-B4C6-456ADF8A072D"}}{\fldrslt impossible}}. In the process, I show how our persistently perplexing questions about canons can be asked, and answered, in new ways with digital tools. Computational methods, in their close association with \'91big data\'92, are often advertised {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://13CB559A-DC92-47BD-867F-6BE4DDFD2DF5"}}{\fldrslt as the solution to the problems of scale which are presumed to motivate the formation of selective canons}}. As my own computational experimentation will reveal, however, computational study more commonly undertakes the same judgment and valuation of texts that characterizes \'91canon formation,\'92 and displaces this process onto \'91corpus building.\'92 It is difficult, when faced with flawed and complex competing narratives, to resist the impulse to simply critique and reject all options. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1830E375-A264-4469-9EF8-F0A2DE9C9784"}}{\fldrslt \cb2 If we may learn any lessons from the 1790s, however, surely one must be the danger of universal paranoia.}} Accordingly, this dissertation takes place within three scholarly conversations: the digital humanities, as an increasingly self-reflective set of practices; eighteenth century studies, and the challenges presented by the 1790s; and the frameworks of reparative reading within queer theory which seem to offer valuable resources for both. The remainder of this chapter will describe in more detail the relevant scholarship in all three fields, then discuss the overlaps between them which enable my work. Finally, this chapter will conclude with a description of the two computational experiments which drive the dissertation as a whole, situating them within the three fields, and providing a sketch of their development across the dissertation.}