{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Because typically created from existing analog collections, digital ones can grow at the faster rate of digitization than manual collection. Database and interface features can be renovated more quickly than physical infrastructure; even if development is lengthy, when changes are implemented, for the end user they take effect instantaneously. Crowd-sourced corrections\'97a celebrated feature of Trove\'92s newspaper collection\'97mean that searchable text can change even when the number of digitized documents remains constant.\'94 (213)\
\
\'93For instance, to the (supplied) question \'93What does the collection cover?\'94 the British Newspaper Archive answers, \'93The British Library\'92s newspaperPage 216 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 \cf2  collections are among the finest in the world, containing most of the runs of newspapers published in the UK since 1800\'94 (findmypast, \'93About the British Newspaper Archive,\'94 britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/help/about).
\b \cf2  Conflating the cultural institution\'92s analog holdings with the commercial organization\'92s digital ones, this reply obscures the nature and scope of the digital collection while denying the existence of gaps between historical and digital records
\b0 \cf2 .\'94 (215-216)\
\cf3 \
\'93Feminist literary historians have extensively debated whether men or women were more likely to use opposite sex pseudonyms. Some argue that women were more likely to use male pen names to avoid either the shame associated with middle- and upper-class women earning a living by writing fiction and/or the nineteenth-century perception of \'93women novelists\'a0.\'a0.\'a0. as inferior to male writers\'94 (Casey n6; see also Sutherland 156, 159\'9660). Others propose that men were more likely to use female pseudonyms due to the nineteenth-century view of fiction authorship as feminized (Judd 82; Tuchman with Fortin 53). 
\b Among the colonial newspaper fiction identified in this project, titles by known male authors were inscribed as \'93female\'94 only seven times, compared with eighty-one cases where the opposite occurs.
\b0 \'94 (218)\
\
\'93The claim that nineteenth-century men and women wrote distinct types of fiction is foundational to much twentieth-century feminist literary scholarship (for example, S. Gilbert and Gubar; P. Gilbert). Numerous stylometry projects focus on distinguishing male and female authors based on word frequencies (for example, Olsen; Rybicki).\'94 (225)\
\
\cf2 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 To follow up on:
\b0 \cf2 \
\'93On the limitations of bibliographical records for quantitative analysis, see Elliot.\'94\
\
\'93Folsom\'92s essay on database as a new genre also associates digital technologies with comprehensive and direct access to the literary-historical record, even as the resource he refers to\'97The Walt Whitman Archive (whitmanarchive.org/)\'97enacts a carefully historicized approach to the documentary record. Responses to this essay, including by Freedman and by McGann (\'93Database\'94), represent early rejections of this paradigm of transparency in digital humanities.\'94\
\
\'93Shillingsburg offers an accessible account of the shift in scholarly editing from an archetypal to a historical and material approach (167\'9668) and of the distinctions between the implied, represented, and interpreted work (170\'9681).\'94\
\
\'93Humanities scholars have long recognized archives as manifesting structures of authority rather than as neutral containers; see Manoff for a concise summary of this extensive debate.\'94\
\
\'93For an interesting discussion of original and changing textual meanings, see Frow, \'93Reading.\'94\cf3 \
\
\'93On the inadequacy of most critical bibliographies for studying fiction reprinting, see Johanningsmeier, \'93Frank\'94 285.\'94\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li360\fi-360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 Elliot, Simon. \'93Very Necessary but Not Quite Sufficient: A Personal View of Quantitative Analysis in Book History.\'94 Book History 5 (2002): 283\'9693.\cf3 \
Folsom, Ed. \'93Database as Genre: The Epic Transformation of Archives.\'94 PMLA 122, no. 5 (2007): 1571\'9679.\
Freedman, Jonathan. \'93Whitman, Database, Information Culture.\'94 PMLA 122, no. 5 (2007): 1596\'961602.\
Frow, John. \'93Reading with Guns: Institutions of Interpretation and District of Columbia v. Heller.\'94 New Literary History 47, no. 1 (2016): 83\'96107.\
Johanningsmeier, Charles. \'93Frank Norris\'92s \'91A Salvation Boom in Matabeleland\'92: The Bibliographic Problems of Syndicated Fiction.\'94 Text 10 (1997): 283\'9696.\
Manoff, Marlene. \'93Theories of the Archive from Across the Disciplines.\'94 Portal: Libraries and the Academy 4, no. 1 (2004): 9\'9625.\
McGann, Jerome. \'93Database, Interface, and Archive Fever.\'94 PMLA 122, no. 5 (2007): 1588\'9692.\
Shillingsburg, Peter. \'93How Literary Works Exist: Implied, Represented and Interpreted.\'94 In Text and Genre in Reconstruction: Effects of Digitization on Ideas, Behaviours, Products and Institutions, edited by Willard McCarty, 165\'9682. Cambridge: OpenBook, 2010.\
\
\
Also seems interesting:\
\'93Cordell, Ryan. \'93Reprinting, Circulation, and the Network Author in Antebellum Newspapers.\'94 American Literary History 27, no. 3 (August 2015): 417\'9645.\'94\
\'93Darnton, Robert. \'93What Is the History of Books?\'94 Daedalus 111, no. 3 (1982): 65\'9683.\'94\
\'93Drucker, Johanna. \'93Distributed and Conditional Documents: Conceptualizing Bibliographical Alterities.\'94 MATLIT: Materialidades da Literatura/Materialities of Literature 2, no. 1 (2014). iduc.uc.pt/index.php/matlit/article/view/1891/1303\'94\
\'93Eggert, Paul. \'93The Book, Scholarly Editing and the Electronic Edition.\'94 In Resourceful Reading: The New Empiricism, eResearch and Australian Literary Culture, edited by Katherine Bode and Robert Dixon, 53\'9669. Sydney: Sydney University Press, 2009.\'94\
\'93Gitelman, Lisa, ed. \'93Raw Data\'94 Is an Oxymoron. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2013.\'94\
\'93Goldstone, Andrew. \'93The Doxa of Reading.\'94 PMLA. Forthcoming in 2018. Preprint: https://andrewgoldstone.com/research/doxa-ms.pdf\
Goldstone, Andrew. \'93From Reproducible to Productive.\'94 Journal of Cultural Analytics February 27, 2017. http://culturalanalytics.org/2017/02/from-reproducible-to-productive/\'94\
\'93Hack, Daniel. \'93Close Reading at a Distance: The African-Americanization of Bleak House.\'94 Critical Inquiry 34, no. 4 (2008): 729\'9653.\'94\
\'93Mak, Bonnie. \'93Archaeology of a Digitization.\'94 Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology 65, no. 8 (2014): 1515\'9626.\'94\
\'93McGann, Jerome. \'93From Text to Work: Digital Tools and the Emergence of the Social Text.\'94 In The Book as Artefact: Text and Border, edited by Anne Hansen, Roger L\'fcdeke, Wolfgang Streit, Cristina Urchuegu\'eda, and Peter Shillingsburg, 225\'9640. Amsterdam: Rodopi, 2005.\'94\
\'93McKenzie, D. F. Bibliography and the Sociology of Texts: The Panizzi Lectures. 1986. London: British Library, 1999.\'94\
\'93Pearson, Jacqueline. Women\'92s Reading in Britain, 1750\'961834: A Dangerous Recreation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999.\'94\
\'93Price, Kenneth M. \'93Edition, Project, Database, Archive, Thematic Research Collection: What\'92s in a Name?\'94 Digital Humanities Quarterly 3, no. 3 (2009). http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/3/3/000053/000053.html\'94\
\'93Robinson, Catherine. \'93How We Search Now: New and Old Ways of Digging Up Wolf\'92s \'91Sir John Moore.\'92\'94 In Virtual Victorians: Networks, Connections, Technologies, edited by Veronica Alfano and Andrew Stauffer, 11\'9628. New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2015.\'94\
\'93Sherratt, Tim. \'93Asking Better Questions: History, Trove and the Risks that Count.\'94 In Copyfight, edited by Phillipa McGuinness, 112\'9624. Sydney: NewSouth Books, 2015.\'94\
\'93Solberg, Janine. \'93Googling the Archive: Digital Tools and the Practice of History.\'94 Advances in the History of Rhetoric 15, no. 1 (2012): 53\'9678.\'94
\f2\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}