{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red0\green0\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 I contend that each database is best understood as a negotiation between the noncommercial values of textual reproduction and \cf3 the commercial environment in which institutions much remain financially solvent\cf2 . Each database has the goal of making valuable information available. After the 1990s, they are particularly influenced by the utopian ideal that digital reproduction at last made textual reproduction free. Each had to contend, however, with the fact that before a text can be reproduced digitally it must be 
\i created
\i0  digitally, and that even if the material costs are entirely eliminated (which, of course, they are not) textual creation continues to have costs in labour.\cf3  In Paddy Bullard\'92s \'93Digital Humanities and Electronic Resources in the Long Eighteenth Century,\'94 which surveys the research completed and the resources used as of 2013, Bullard is also faced with the task of explaining why multiple services interact so poorly. Bullard, too, observes the core tension between public access vs private profit: \
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\li720\sl312\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf4 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Viewing the field of eighteenth-century digital humanities as a single prospect, it is the contrast between publicly funded, open-access sites, and privately owned, subscription-access resources that is most striking. Each side of the divide has much to learn from the other. Publicly funded academic projects must acquire the pragmatism and ambitiousness of scale that commercial developers have always shown. Commercial developers must adapt themselves more generously to the principles of scholarly openness and accuracy. They might also imitate the inventiveness of the open sector, its adaptability to the demands raised by different kinds of primary media. Both sides recognize the desirability of making their resources interoperable across the divide, and the business of interconnectivity will preoccupy all kinds of digital humanist in the coming {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8A5A470D-EDC4-4092-A14D-D1805E127482"}}{\fldrslt decade.}}\cf3 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf3 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 Bullard is correct to note that there are major disjunctions between databases like the 
\i \cf3 The British Book Trade Index
\i0 \cf3  or careful online editions like 
\i \cf3 The Proceedings of the Old Bailey, 1674\'961913
\i0 \cf3 , compared to massive archives like ECCO. It seems odd, however, to attribute to ECCO 
\i \cf3 both
\i0 \cf3  \'93ambitiousness of scale\'94 
\i \cf3 and
\i0 \cf3  \'93pragmatism\'94 as the lessons for noncommercial projects to imitate, since an ambitious scale is only plausibly pragmatic for a project with the money to sustain itself. Even odder is the idea that commercial developers might voluntarily choose to \'93adapt themselves more generously to the principles of scholarly openness and accuracy,\'94 when the core business model of a private enterprise relies on its lack of openness, and the private access only seems worth purchasing when its marketers suppress all nuance about accuracy. As Bode observes, \'93the commercial imperatives of these enterprises arguably depend on them presenting these collections as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FDEFDB26-0EAB-4BFC-9778-3450BBFA2776"}}{\fldrslt comprehensive.\'94}} In other words, Bullard has observed an underlying system of profit and non-profit in awkward competition, and examined the outputs of these systems in order to articular their particular virtues and describe what a \'91best of both worlds\'92 might look like if both parts of the system sought to collaborate together on how best to achieve maximally useful scholarly resources. What Bullard overlooks in this process is that not all parts of this system have the goal of achieving maximally useful scholarly resources.\cf0 \
\cf3 Bullard suggests tentatively that university presses might be site of bridging efforts between the non-profit and for-profit worlds, but where we can actually see an example occurring is in the Text Creation Partnership. \cf2 The TCP\cf3  attempted to intervene in the system with \cf2 \'93a public-private partnership, led by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2387C4D3-D885-435A-805D-1B2E0065C842"}}{\fldrslt libraries;\'94}}\cf3  their\cf2  \cf3 materials\cf2  emphasize the \'93librarian\'92s attitude toward content\'94 which prioritizes the widest possible access and use. This \'93librarian\'92s attitude\'94 is most evident in the (eventual) availability of all of the transcriptions in the public domain, despite the fact that the images they are based on remain privately restricted by the companies which own them. Their description of the \'93partnership,\'94 however, continues to show signs of the strain in value systems when commercial and noncommercial goals are intertwined: \'93Through our partnership with private vendors, we had access to a huge trove of images from which to transcribe. In return, these companies were supplied with a full-text index to their images \'97work which would have otherwise been difficult or expensive to produce.\'94 In other words, through purchasing a service (access to images), the academic institution\cf3 s\cf2  received that service. These \cf3 academic \cf2 institutions carried out an enormous feat of labour at their own expense, using the service they purchased. Then, \'93in return,\'94 they provided the results of their labour to the company, for the company to then further profit from the improvements to their service. Most telling, here, is the word \'93otherwise\'94\cf3  in calling this \'93\cf2 work which would have otherwise been difficult or expensive to produce\cf3 .\'94\cf2  The suggestion here is that, without the TCP, the companies themselves would not have been willing to undertake the encoding \cf3 that was \cf2 so desired by the users of their service. However, the TCP certainly did not make the task any less difficult or expensive. Instead, academic institutions absorbed the difficulty and expense on those companies\'92 behalf. I do not say that they were wrong to do so: on the contrary, the \'93librarian\'92s attitude\'94 mirrors my own attitude, and it is surely to everyone\'92s benefit for a wonderful thing to exist even if that wonderful thing is not profitable. Rather, I highlight this rhetorical moment in the TCP\'92s self description to suggest that it takes two to collaborate\cf3 , and that no amount of effort on the librarians\'92 part can change the core institutional drive of a private company\cf2 .\cf3  Companies like Gale are perfectly happy to help achieve maximally useful scholarly resources if doing so it also a good way to turn a profit, but this does not mean that they have the same goals as academic institutions. \cf2 One of the three key aims of the TCP identified on the homepage is to \'93collaborate with commercial providers, rather than constantly bargaining and competing with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DFB6BFA7-1236-428A-BC68-8C86EDC8B5C3"}}{\fldrslt them.\'94}} However, the TCP seems instead to have simply come up with a 
\i better
\i0  bargain, one which creatively offers scholarly labour as a bargaining chip.\cf0 \
\cf3 What do these database histories mean for scholars of eighteenth century literature? First and foremost, these histories provide another reminder that scholarly materials do not exist prior to interpretation or intervention. It is not merely that they are 
\i \cf3 shaped
\i0 \cf3  or 
\i \cf3 influenced
\i0 \cf3  by their institutional contexts, implying small quirks or edge cases which can generally be ignored: they are 
\i \cf3 constituted in the first place
\i0 \cf3  by those institutional contexts. Secondly, these histories suggest a course of action to be taken in response to the specific institutional factors constituting each database. Scholars periodically acknowledge the gaps between historical events as they occurred and the specific archive, database, or corpus that they are using as a proxy for the idealized concept of \'93the historical record,\'94 but these acknowledgements typically take the form of a statement that some form of bias is assumed to exist, but that this bias is so unknowable and unavoidable that naturally we will just continue onward as if it was not present. Identifying the specific institutional process that led to the current digital infrastructure undermines efforts to brush off these details as unknowable: directly investigating the actual demographics of each resource\'92s holdings can also render these biases no longer unavoidable.}