{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'91In 1978, an operational test was conducted in the New York Public Library, under the guidance of Professor Terry Belanger, to assess the methodology of an American counterpart to the British editorial effort. In 1979, this resulted in the formation of the team in Louisiana State University, under the direction of Professor Henry Snyder.\'94 (Crump 105)\
\'94soon after the ESTC cataloguing rules had been established in 1979, a project, based at Munster under the direction of professor Bernhard Fabian, was begun to catalogue the holdings of the University of Gottingen Library to the same standards. This project, the fruits of which will be published in 1986, has enjoyed a close relationship with the British Library editorial office. Where ESTC records already existed, these were adopted as the Gottingen record and only those works not held in the ESTC base file were catalogued again. Similar arrangements were adopted with regard to two parts of the Early Imprints Project (New South Wales and South Australia), which is seeking to record all early imprints in New Zealand and Australia. A catalogue of the Catholic Libraries in Sydney w a s produced earlier this year.\'94 (Crump 105)\
\
\'93RLIN was chosen because it is an interactive on-line system as opposed to BLAISE/LOCAS (the local\
catalogue production service of BLAISE), which updates in batch mode. The terminal in the British Library, soon to be joined by six others, is the first\cf3  \cf2 tangible\cf3  \cf2 sign\cf3  \cf2 of\cf3  \cf2 this\cf3  \cf2 visionary\cf3  \cf2 endeavour. It\cf3  \cf2 was anticipated that, with effect from October 1985, both ESTC teams would work on this single, interactive system and therefore be able to have almost instant access to the fruits of each other\'92s labours. Once ESTC has gained experience of using the system, the British Library will experiment with other uses to which RLIN might be put. The link via Washington will also give the Library direct access to the National Library of Medicine.\
It is hoped that this development will result in a more complete and coherent \'92first edition\'92 of ESTC, which\cf3  \cf2 will\cf3  \cf2 be\cf3  \cf2 published\cf3  \cf2 in\cf3  \cf2 1989. In\cf3  \cf2 the\cf3  \cf2 meantime, the ESTC file is available to scholars on both BLAISE- LINE and on RLIN.\'94 (Crump 106)\
\
\'93No longer is the scholar limited in access to the\cf3  \cf2 data\cf3  \cf2 by\cf3  \cf2 the\cf3  \cf2 fixity\cf3  \cf2 of\cf3  \cf2 the\cf3  \cf2 printed\cf3  \cf2 page. Subject\cf3  \cf2 areas can be isolated by keyword and the search can be\cf3  \cf2 further refined by place or country of publication. The output of a particular printer can be readily retrieved and then charted in terms of numbers per\cf3  \cf2 decade or per year. However, the most exciting quality of having the file mounted on the national database is the way in which it becomes of use, not only for searches such as these, but also for people working in disciplines that might not previously have resorted to the printed short title catalogues for the earlier periods. Furthermore, the searches outlined above presuppose large bodies of material, but the file can be used just as easily to verify a hunch in which a zero result would be a significant finding. A simplified manual for searching the file on-line has\cf3  \cf2 been\cf3  \cf2 prepared\cf3  \cf2 and\cf3  \cf2 is\cf3  \cf2 available\cf3  \cf2 free\cf3  \cf2 of\cf3  \cf2 charge\cf3  \cf2 from the editorial office.\'94 (Crump 106)}