{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 In 1980, the ESTC began to go online. \cf0  \'93One implication of the publication history of short-title catalogues is that they have been deemed functional and valuable even before they were complete. (That estimation is crucial, for their full completion is for all practical purposes impossible.) Judging that even a preliminary form of the records was useful to scholars, the planners of ESTC determined to conduct its development \'91in full public {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5A19C5E5-6567-4B86-8B1D-111F0FA4F4B2"}}{\fldrslt view.\'92\'94}} Accordingly, the in-progress database was made available through the British Library BLAISE [British LibraryAutomated Information SErvice] system in 1980 and through the US Research Libraries Group RLIN [Research Libraries Information Network] system in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://05062758-10C9-45F8-B356-2E5E37ED2637"}}{\fldrslt 1981.}}\
Meanwhile, \cf2 the book facsimiles which would become Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO) b\cf3 egan as \cf2 in 1983, when the company \cf3 Research Publications, Inc\cf2  began to produce its 
\i \cf2 Eighteenth Century Collection 
\i0 \cf2 microfilm.\cf3  \cf2 Research Publications was a newly-founded for-profit company, which was founded in \cf3 1981. \cf2 They and their\cf3  rival\cf2 ,\cf3  University Microfilms\cf2 , produced many of the facsimile images in contemporary databases\cf3 . \cf2 Today, the former Research Publications, Inc is part of\cf3  Gale Cengage\cf2 , and \cf3 U\cf2 niversity \cf3 M\cf2 icrofilms\cf3  \cf2 is part of\cf3  ProQuest\cf2 ; as ECCO\'92s history continues, the private company that owns the microfilms will change many times.\cf0 \
1983 also saw the publication of the first subset of the ESTC intended to be accessible beyond the librarians and scholars compiling the file. The ESTC intended to publish editions at particular milestones of completeness, intended for the use of non-librarian scholars. The first, a fiche catalogue and index of the British Library\'92s holdings, was published in a microform \'93snapshot\'94 in 1983, but other milestones did not occur according to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F94D1542-3E18-4B87-A5B0-709260ECBFD0"}}{\fldrslt schedule.}} The joint Anglo-American interim publication of the ESTC file which was expected to follow on microform in 1984 did not {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D6566A08-A463-4757-8B45-03C08E2576A9"}}{\fldrslt appear.}} Alston attributed the delays partly to the immensity of the task, and partly to the impact of short-term cost-cutting decisions, like the reduction of early-stage proofreading or of in-person examination of books, which dramatically increased the labour of verifying the resulting database record. Although he consistently warned \'93how easily strategic decisions based exclusively on cost usually lead to greater, not less, eventual costs,\'94 the ESTC each year seemed to be facing a new budget struggle, and important maintenance labour was several times {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E1765CCC-EBD0-410B-B550-395DE69795A7"}}{\fldrslt deferred.}} This created something like a paradox for the ESTC: funding bodies wanted to commit less money to a project which was behind schedule, but the project would remain behind schedule unless it was funded to complete the work required. \
Nonetheless, work continued, and in 1985, the online databases in RLIN and BLAISE were upgraded to allow dynamic updates to a single shared file (Crump 106), which for the first time allowed continuous access to a shared record, rather than the constant exchange and messy merging of individual partially-overlapping records. To facilitate its use, the ESTC distributed a manual fo searching the online file, \'93and Crump took the opportunity of the update to rhapsodize on the database\'92s potential usefulness for other scholars: \'93No longer is the scholar limited in access to the data by the fixity of the printed {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E586A6BA-F4A5-4D01-88E3-6508DD7E5D04"}}{\fldrslt page.\'94}} This valuable resource was not without cost. Although the manual on how to formulate search queries was free, use of the ESTC itself was notably not. Institutions or individuals paid to subscribe to the ESTC itself, paid per query for searches to be run, paid per minute for being connected to the database, and often paid for access to the computers they must use in their own libraries. Tabor says \'93the ongoing expense of consulting ESTC was the cyber-equivalent of the hefty up-front payment needed to acquire its printed predecessors, STC and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5C106237-DEF0-4913-A3C6-A1AD492D17E6"}}{\fldrslt Wing.\'94}} \cf2 The second volume of the second edition of the STC was published in 1986. \cf0 In 1987, the Eighteenth-Century Short Title Catalogue expanded its scope to include all materials from the origins of print in Britain to 1800, changing its name to the English Short Title {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://264FBD64-09A0-4634-AFCA-05768D672569"}}{\fldrslt Catalogue.}}}