{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Smith\'92s personal life sometimes overshadows this career. As her works often make clear to her readers, after a briefly comfortable youth as the daughter of a well-off country gentleman who lived beyond his means, she was married at age sixteen to Benjamin Smith, \'93son of a prosperous London merchant and owner of Barbados sugar cane plantations. The marriage was contracted hastily to remove her from her paternal home, now dominated by her new wealthy stepmother. Looking back in bitterness nearly forty years later, Charlotte Smith described the event as her father's decision to sell her like a \'93legal prostitute, in my early youth, or what the law calls infancy\'94 (Smith to Sarah Rose, 15 June 1804)\cf2 \'94 (Roberts).\cf0  Benjamin Smith was cruel and violently abusive. He was also so financially irresponsible that his wealthy father\cf2 , Richard Smith,\cf0  wanted to prevent Benjamin from inheriting.\cf2  Charlotte Smith assisted Richard with business correspondence and impressed him as responsible and competent. In recognition of her husband\'92s unreliability, \'93she persuaded [Richard] to relieve his son of all his ties to the business and establish him as a gentleman farmer in Hampshire\'94 in 1774 (Zimmerman).\cf0  \cf2 Richard Smith died in 1776. \cf0 \'93In an attempt to provide for his daughter-in-law, Richard bequeathed the bulk of his property to her children. But he had drawn up his will without professional advice; legal wranglings over the inheritance worth nearly \'a336,000 soon arose and were not settled until almost forty years later. By 1783 Benjamin had already unlawfully squandered more than a third of this trust and, as a consequence, found himself first in deep debt and then in King's Bench Prison.\'94 \cf2 (Roberts). \cf0 \'93Her husband Benjamin Smith had been arrested for debt and embezzlement in December 1783, and it was from King\'92s Bench Prison that Smith negotiated the publication of her sonnets, partly to fund her husband\'92s release and in order to support her family of, at that point, nine children. James Dodsley of Pall Mall, who had initially refused the sonnets, finally accepted and published them after the intervention of the popular poet and near neighbour of Smith, William Hayley, to whom the edition is dedicated\'94 \cf2 (Roberts). After the success of the 
\i Elegiac Sonnets
\i0  allowed Smith to pay for her husband\'92s release from prison, Benjamin Smith fled to France to escape further creditors. Charlotte Smith moved between England and France over the next year and a half to negotiate his debts, and on 1785, the family was able to return to England. In 1787, after 22 years of marriage, Charlotte Smith legally separated from her husband, and moved to a town near Chichester with her nine surviving children (of the twelve she had given birth to). However, despite this separation, Benjamin Smith retained a legal right to Charlotte Smith\'92s profits from her writing. Smith moved frequently after her separation, due to financial instability and declining health. \'93Judith Phillips Stanton estimates that Smith's greatest earning years were from 1787 to 1798 (Stanton, Charlotte Smith's \'93literary business\'94, 393). When volume 2 of Elegiac Sonnets appeared in 1797, the list of subscribers had shrunk to 283 names.\'94 (Zimmerman). \'93On 23 February 1806 Benjamin died in a debtors' prison and some money reverted to Charlotte Smith. By then she was far too ill to execute her favourite scheme, to settle on the shores of Lake Leman. On 28 October 1806 she died, only eight months after her husband, and seven years before Richard Smith's estate was finally settled.\'94 (Blank)}