{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red206\green187\blue255;\red252\green121\blue193;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84700\c79200\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c57288\c79972;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \cb2 \'93It may be that Wordsworth in Lyrical Ballads affiliates his own verse with the oral tradition of popular ballads that might seem the best recourse for a poet dedicated to the \'91principle of equality\'92, but it would be hard to claim that Wordsworth\'92s poems show a knowledge of that tradition equal to Walter Scott\'92s, nor that they were so deeply influenced by it, \cb3 nor that they succeeded in addressing so wide an audience\cb2 , and no one would claim either that Scott\'92s Muse was a levelling one, or that Scott developed a poetic style, whatever the claims Lukacs has made for the novels, that expressed the principles of the French Revolution.\'94 (16) \cb1 \
\
\'93The first period is characterized by the attempt to frame a universal language, a language in which it might be possible to address all of humanity. The most powerful of the languages available in the 1790s that could plausibly claim universal status was the language of science, and hence it is appropriate that \cb3 the most celebrated poet of these years, Erasmus Darwin\cb1 , was concerned \'91to inlist Imagination under the banner of Science\'92. (16)\
\
\cb3 \'93Erasmus Darwin was the most popular poet of the 1790s, and his 
\i The Botanic Garden 
\i0 (1791), in which 
\i The Economy of Vegetation
\i0  formed the first part, and 
\i The Loves of Plants
\i0  (1789) the second, was the decade\'92s most popular poem.\'94\cb1  (29) \'93The beautifully and expensively produced edition of The Botanic Garden published by Joseph Johnson in 1791, with its elegant typefaces, and its engravings from Fuseli and others, in itself proclaims a confidence in the book\'92s unusual importance. \'85 His edition of Darwin\'92s poem registers his recognition of the book\'92s commercial prospects but also his recognition that the poem gave vivid expression to a set of / beliefs shared by Johnson\'92s stable of authors, and his confidence that in 1791 such beliefs could be expressed triumphally, by the publication of a volume as costly and elegant as one of Wedgwood\'92s copies of the Portland Vase, itself reproduced by Blake in the book\'92s most elaborate engraving.\'94 (29-30)\
\
\'93\cb3 Throughout the period treated in this book successive governments made a more sustained and vigorous attempt to prevent the publication of Paine\'92s writings than those of any other radical propagandist\cb1 , and the reason is obvious enough. They correctly detected in Tom Paine\'92s prose the achievement of the alliance between intellectual and popular radicalism that they most feared. Their campaign was strikingly unsuccessful.\cb3  They were unable to prevent Paine\'92s works becoming more widely available through cheap reprints than the works of any other contemporary writer\cb1 , and yet the consequence they feared never came to pass.\'94 (59)\
\'93But it would be idle to deny that it remains for all that an entirely eccentric text. Up to a point Blake\'92s printing methods in themselves account for this. \cb3 The 
\i Marriage of Heaven and Hell
\i0  exists in nine complete and two incomplete copies\cb1 , and it seems improbable that very many more copies were ever produced. \cb3 The contrast with the thousands of copies circulating of Paine\'92s 
\i Rights of Man
\i0  needs no underlining\cb1 . But it would be idle to pretend that the Marriage, \cb3 even if Blake had devised a way of printing that made possible a wide circulation, would ever have achieved wide popularity\cb1 , and this was not because Blake as an eccentric, but because his project was.\'94 (60) \'93in making such an attempt Blake is likely to succeed only in writing the manifesto of a party of which he is the only member\'94 (60)\
\
\'93\cb3 Scott\'92s 
\i Minstrelsy
\i0  transforms ballads freely passed from speaker to speaker around cottage fires on the Scottish Borders into luxury items, items only available to book-buyers of some means\cb1  \'97 the original two volumes of the 
\i Minstrelsy
\i0  sold for a guinea. James Ballantyne\'92s printing of the volumes works in tandem with Scott\'92s editorial work to secure this effect. Typefaces elegantly distinguish the ballads from their editorial matter, and the ballads themselves are displayed with an opulent disregard for economy, no more than eighteen lines to the page, so that the 134 lines of \'91Johnnie Armstrong\'92 occupy eight pages of the first volume.\'94 (94)}