{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 The half-title page: \'93A letter to the Church of England, pointing out some popular errors of bad consequence. By An old Friend and Servant of the Church. Price 1s.\'94 \'97 Unusually sparse, and with the price more prominent than the publisher. Then there\'92s a full title page on the next page.\
\
Implies that a new Reformation is needed, alluding to corrections needed after \'93Revolution hath succeeded Revolution\'94 (6); gains urgency from a slippery slope argument: \'93For error will not be stationary; the breach at which the waters enter will grow wider, and admit more of them continually, till the inundation is universal, and the breach irreparable\'94 (7). An incredibly conservative opening reminiscent of Burke.\
Section headers:\
GOVERNMENT \'97 \'93We ought, therefore, to renounce and detest that abominable doctrine, that the power of government is from the people who are governed. We see now immediately how false and contradictory is this principle, that the subject should be the sovereign.\'94 (8)\
REVOLUTION \'97 the glorious revolution was glorious because its oly goal was to avoid \'93Popery\'94; \'93
\i Popular power 
\i0 was avoided by the politicians of that day\'94 (10).\
SCHISM \'97 \'93no man can be taken as authority against the laws of god\'94 (14) so schism (aka, individual religious interpretation?) is a sin which we will regret being guilty of.\
REVELATION \'97 \'93It is dishonourable to GOD, and ungrateful, to look within ourselves for another rule, when he hath given us one from himself\'94 (16)\
SPIRIT \'97 \'93When we affirm that 
\i spiritual
\i0  things are 
\i real
\i0 , it may be added, that nothing else is so\'94 (20)\
OLD TESTAMENT \'97 \'93The law, which came after, was 
\i added
\i0  to this faith [of Abraham in the Old Testament], not to destroy it, but to preserve it\'85 It is \'85 false and dangerous to teach, that the Old Testament had not the promise of life, because the law had it not.\'94 (21)\
\'93Faith has been the religion of man, and the trial of man, ever since the fall of Adam, and will be to the end. Fo the want of it, the Jews fell into a blindness of heart, which the conceit of worldly wisdom and the lust after worldly power never fail to produce. But this is no proof that they had not the example of their father Abraham constantly before their eyes; which, as Jews, they were called to understand and follow.\'94 (22)\
IDOLATRY \'97 some comments on how Jews are better for rejecting idolatry more strongly, and comments on how people read Vergil and swallow heathen ideas because of the poetry. \'93I love Greek; I admire genius; I honour science; but, supposing man to be made for another world \'85 If our learning be such as leads us astray from God, and turn an irresistible judge into an enemy\'97away with it all; the humble ploughman who says his daily prayers, is the more useful subject, the happier man, and will soon be the greater.\'94 (26)\
HUMAN AUTHORITY \'97 he objects to people preaching sermons using texts like Locke rather than the gospels, and insists it all leads directly to schism and violence.\
\
Conclusion: \'93I may be thought to have said too much, and gone too far, but I am afraid I have not gone far enough. (32)\
Is his rhetorical assumption of victimhood accurate? \'93I know withal, that he who slights popularity, must never expect to be popular\'94 (32)\
\'93as I have long lived, so now I hope to die; leaving behind me this paper, as witness that / there was one man, of little note, and of no ambition, who, having his eyes opened to see some great errors of the time \'85 could not refrain from warning his brethren\'94 (32-33)}