{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ROBERT and RICHARD OR, THE GHOST of poor MOLLY, who was drowned in RICHARD'S MILL POND.
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 To the Tune of\'a0
\i Co\'a0[...]'s Mul\'a0[...]erry Tree
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 QUOTH Richard to Bob, "let things go as they will,\
"Of plea\uc0\u383 ure and fun I will \u383 till have my fill;\
"In a little gay Joy I \uc0\u383 ee nothing ami\u383 s,\
"And tho' now and then tip\uc0\u383 y,\'a0
\i what harm is in this?
\i0 \
"For e'en Solomon \uc0\u383 ays, and I vow he \u383 ays truth,\
"'Rejoice, O young man, in the days of thy youth'\'97\
"I am glad" (an\uc0\u383 wer'd Bob) "you're of Solomon's creed,\
"But I beg if you quote him you'll plea\uc0\u383 e to proceed;\
"For God" (as the wi\uc0\u383 e man continues to \u383 ing)\
"Thy \uc0\u383 oul into Judgment for all this will bring.\
"
\b Thus a man may get plung'd in a woeful aby\uc0\u383 s,\
"By chu\uc0\u383 ing to \u383 ay,\'a0
\i Pray what harm is in this?
\i0\b0 \
"Come, Come" (\uc0\u383 ays gay Richard) "don't grudge me a "Cup;\
I'm re\uc0\u383 olv'd, while I'm able, I'll \u383 till keep it up;\
"Let old Greybeards deny that in frolic's there's bli\uc0\u383 s;\
"I'll game, love, and drink\'97
\i and what harm is in this?
\i0 \
Says Robert, "I grant if you live for to-day,\
"You may game, love, and drink, and may frolic away;\
"But then, my dear Dick, I again mu\uc0\u383 t contend,\
"That the wi\uc0\u383 e man has bid us\'a0
\i remember the end."
\i0 \
Says Richard, "when \uc0\u383 ickne\u383 s or peevi\u383 h old age,\
"Shall advance to di\uc0\u383 mi\u383 s me from life's merry \u383 tage;\
"Repentance ju\uc0\u383 t then, Boy, may not be ami\u383 s,\
"But while young I'll be jolly\'97
\i what harm is in this?"
\i0 \
They parted\'97and Richard his pa\uc0\u383 times begun,\
'Twas Richard the Jovial, the \uc0\u383 oul of all fun;\
Each dancing bout, drinking bout, Dick would attend,\
And he \uc0\u383 ung and he \u383 wore\'97
\i nor once thought of the End.
\i0 \

\b Young Molly he courted, the pride of the plain,\
He promis'd her marriage, but promis'd in vain;\
She tru\uc0\u383 ted his vows, but \u383 he \u383 oon was undone,\
And when \uc0\u383 he fell weeping he thought it good fun.\
Thus \uc0\u383 corn'd by her Richard \u383 ad Molly run wild,\
And roam'd thro' the woods with her de\uc0\u383 titute child;\
'Till poor Molly and Molly's poor Baby were found\
One evening in Richard's own mill pond both drown'd.
\b0 \
Then his con\uc0\u383 cience grew troubl'd by night and by day,\
But it's clamour he drown'd in more drink and more play;\
Still Robert exhorted, and like a true friend,\
He warn'd him he pray'd him\'97
\i to think on the End.
\i0 \

\b Now di\uc0\u383 turb'd in his dreams poor Molly each night\
With her babe \uc0\u383 tood before him; how \u383 ad was the \u383 ight!\
O how gha\uc0\u383 tly \u383 he look'd as \u383 he bade him attend,\
And \uc0\u383 o awfully told him\'97
\i "Remember the End."
\i0 \
She talk'd of the woes and unquenchable fire\
Which await the gay Sinner, the Drunkard, and Liar;\
How he ruin'd more maidens \uc0\u383 he bade him beware,\
Then \uc0\u383 he wept, and \u383 he groan'd, and \u383 he vani\u383 h'd in air.
\b0 \
Now beggar'd by Gaming, di\uc0\u383 temper'd by Drink,\
Death \uc0\u383 tar'd in his face, yet he dar'd not to think;\
De\uc0\u383 pairing of mercy, de\u383 pi\u383 ing all truth,\

\b He dy'd of old age in the prime of his youth.\
On his Tomb\uc0\u383 tone good Robert the\u383 e Ver\u383 es engraved,\
Which he hop'd \uc0\u383 ome gay fellow might read and be \u383 av'd.
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280

\b\fs28 \cf2 1.1. The EPITAPH.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300

\fs24 \cf2 HERE lies a poor Youth who call'd \uc0\u383 inning his bli\u383 s,\
And was ruin'd by \uc0\u383 aying\'a0
\i what harm is in this?
\i0 \
Let each Pa\uc0\u383 \u383 er-by to his error attend,\
And learn of poor Dick to\'a0
\i remember the End.
\i0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298

\b\fs36 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li465\ri465\sl300\sa240

\i\b0\fs24 \cf2 Entered at Stationers Hall.
\i0 \
Sold by J. MARSHALL, (PRINTER to the CHEAP REPOSITORY for Moral and Religious Tracts) No. 17, Queen-Street, Cheap\uc0\u383 ide, and No. 4, Aldermary Church-Yard, and R. WHITE, Piccadilly, LONDON.\
By S. HAZARD, (PRINTER to the CHEAP REPOSITORY) at BATH; and by all Book\uc0\u383 ellers, New\u383 men, and Hawkers, in Town and Country.\'97Great Allowance will be made to Shopkeepers and Hawkers.\
Price an Halfpenny, or 2s 3d. per 100, 1s. 3d. for 50, 9d. for 25.\
}