{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Williams draws attention to jestbooks that present themselves as a cure for melancholy: \'93 The literature of mirth is generally predicated on the belief that unhappiness, in the form of melancholy, could only really be cured by a forceful injection of its opposite \'96 hilarity or joviality\'94 (Williams 125). This reading of curative emotional experiences is supported by the frequency with which Darwin prescribes other emotions (like cheerfulness or surprise). Williams is interested in the class frissions that joke books also introduce, the pain caused by a joke that doesn\'92t land, and especially the antisocial potential of jokes. As she observes, \'93There was a fine line between idealized contentment through retired leisure, and the melancholy induced by idleness and solitude; a tension between the well being induced by jests and jokes, and the sense of alienation that this could also engender\'94 (126).\
Williams is interested in the audiences of jestbooks, and especially the way they tailor themselves to groups \'97 though mine doesn\'92t suggest a particular audience. She also finds herself surprised by books that are \'93certainly not prim\'94 or \'93not really polite fare\'94 even when seemingly aimed at women or advertised as free of \'93gross Indecencies\'94 \'97 suggesting that her/our standards for humour may be historically distant from the 18thC? She is particularly struck by the misogyny of the jestbook intended for women, which includes many men unhappy with their wives, as opposed to jokes more obviously at men\'92s expense. Trying to understand this book in light of the common theory that jokes build common culture through shared in- and out-groups, Williams says \'93the dynamics of exclusion are harder to pin down\'94 (132).\
In general Williams is very loosey goosey with timelines; more than 200 years treated as one phenomenon or culture, which makes it hard to really know how to contextualize my jokebook.\
\
P 141 her conclusion: \'93 Looking more closely at how people read and used the literature of jest reveals the faultlines between theories of happiness, and the lived reality. We can see the way in which jokes and games were sometimes seen as an embodiment of friendship groups, and were thus especially valuable for those living in relative isolation \'96 often the same kind of rural seclusion that was elsewhere praised as a model of contented moderation. It also shows us the way sociable humour promoted inclusive ideas of general human well being, but that it was also frequently predicated on the exclusion of certain groups. \'85 It was based on the idea that other people\'92s joviality is infectious and curative. But printed jokes and games are of course, not the same as the company of real people, and in some ways, jestbook mirth is a culture of fun by proxy. If the eighteenth century was truly the age in which secular happiness was invented, it was also an age which discovered some of the limitations of a literature of happiness.\'94}