{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 John Mee, in Print, Publicity, and Popular Radicalism in the 1790s, is concerned with the activities of the London Corresponding Society, placed in the context of Romanticism.\
\'93I examine public lectures, toasting, tavern debates, and song, but also more mundane and less colourful associational practices, such as day-to-day editorial discussion about what to publish under the LCS\'92s name.\'94 (28)\
\
\'93At certain points the societies seem to operate under the spell of \'91print magic\'92, that is, a faith that print could liberate mankind simply by bringing ideas into printed circulation.\'94 (24)\
\
\'93tracing the way in which print formats and practices were elaborated and tested across different popular radical groups\'94 (26) \'93How were they to identify and give form to the \'91general will\'92 of the people?\'94 (26)\
\'93\'91the scattered million\'92 and \'91the people\'92\'94 (27)\
\
\'93the role of print personality as a form of mediation, that is, both attacks on personalities by the radical press but also the development of personae by writers and booksellers\'94 (29)\
\
The \'91but is it literature\'92 question: \'93Placing this study within the series \'91Cambridge Studies in Romanticism\'92 implies an understanding of popular radicalism as a kind of \'91literary\'92 culture. At least, it argues for the centrality of the writing, production, and circulation of printed texts that took up so much of the time of the radical societies.\'94(18) Nonetheless, the book stands independent from \'93Romanticism and its major poets, novelists, and playwrights\'94 (18). \'93this formation and the associated identification of the literary with what John Thelwall called \'91sallies of the imagination\'92 were the product of a crisis brought on by the emergence of the popular radical culture opened up in this book, but the story is not a straightforward one. Thelwall himself could identify \'91literature\'92 both with a domain of imagination separable from politics and with print as the principal engine of emancipatory change.\'94 (18)}