{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 So while the full.tsv contains records for works published as early as 1660 and as late as 1853, you can choose the 18c-full.tsv to look only at records published from 1700-1799, and the 19c-full.tsv for records with publication dates from 1800-1853.\
\
About the Dataset\
The Early Novels Dataset contains bibliographic metadata for early works of fiction held in the Collection of British and American Fiction, 1660-1830 (CBAF) at the University of Pennsylvania\'92s Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts, as well as other regional repositories. It consists of MARC catalog records enriched with custom subfields designed to offer new kinds of structured data about early fiction in English.\
\
The END dataset is comprised of high-quality, human-generated metadata that captures a much fuller range of edition- and copy-specific information about early novels than traditional library catalog records. The END metadata schema builds on library-standard MARC records with custom-designed subfields that use both controlled and discursive vocabularies to describe a range of bibliographic features outside the scope of traditional cataloging. These include important bibliographic details such as authority statements, full and half title, accurate and controlled place of publication, and edition statement. They capture both copy-specific information about marginalia, inscriptions, and bookplates as well as title-level data on narrative form. And finally, they record the presence of important paratextual features like authors\'92 notes, epigraphs, footnotes, and indices, which can be found in many works of early fiction but have never been cataloged in a systematic way that would enable faceted search across a corpus.\
\
As of September 2017, the complete Early Novels Dataset totals 2,041 records. The core eighteenth-century subset consists of 1,325 records, which represent all of Penn Libraries\'92 Collection of British and American Fiction holdings published from 1700-1794 and a sampling of holdings published from 1795-1799. A sample comparison of the CBAF holdings from the decade of the 1760s with all known fiction in English published during this period suggests that Penn's collection represents approximately 14% of this total corpus. In the core eighteenth-century subset, Penn's holdings are supplemented with selected holdings from other Philadelphia-area and regional repositories, including the Library Company of Philadelphia, the Rosenbach, the Swarthmore Libraries Rare Book Room, Bryn Mawr College Special Collections, and New York University's Fales Library.\
\
Pair END Data with Fulltext for Topic Modeling\
While END\'92s primary focus is metadata, we are also in the preliminary stages of a fulltext initiative for the CBAF novels digitized by Penn Libraries and available through Print at Penn. We have created fulltext files for each of these texts using OCR; cleanup work is ongoing, both computationally and through hand-correcting. The fulltext is available in our digital-collection repostiory. We have also worked with Penn Libraries' Digital Humanities Specialist Scott Enderle to experiment with topic modeling of this fulltext combined with END metadata. Work-in-progress can be found in our earlynovels-topic-model repository, and Scott's enhanced Topic Modeling Tool, which enables pairing fulltext with metadata, can be found here.}