{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red7\green9\blue9;\red252\green111\blue207;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c2353\c3137\c3137;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
THE LIMITATIONS AND POSSIBILITIES OF THE ESTC STEPHEN KARIAN 
\fs24 \cf3 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 Th\cf2 e English Short-Title Catalogue (ESTC) has been described as \'93one of the greatest scholarly ventures ever conducted\'94 and \'93the largest humanistic research project of the twentieth century.\'94 Even one of the most trenchant critics of the ESTC\'92s recent developments is confident that \'93biblio- graphical and library historians will . . . judge [the ESTC] as one of the heroic scholarly enterprises of the twentieth century.\'94
\fs16 \cf2 \up10 2 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \up0 For once, such superlatives are well deserved. As a union catalogue of nearly all printed matter before 1801 published in the British Isles and colonies or written in the English language, the ESTC has transformed eighteenth-century scholarship. It has enabled scholars of this period to imagine and pursue research questions that would otherwise have been extremely difficult if not impossible to answer. For many research projects concerning the English-speaking world before 1801, the ESTC is one of the best resources to identify relevant printed materials, determine their publishing histories, and find out where they can be examined. \cf3  (283)
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Those responsible for laying the foundations of the ESTC in the 1970s exhibited considerable foresight in their decision not to compile a printed catalogue along the lines of the original Pollard and Redgrave Short-Title Catalogue for 1476\'961640 or Donald Wing\'92s catalogue for 1641\'961700. Instead, they chose to exploit the resources of computing power, which meant that ESTC records existed in digital form long before many humanists saw computer technology as central to their work. The ESTC was also a remarkable collaborative effort that spanned the Atlantic and encompassed scholars as well as librarians. Visionary thinking was essential to the ESTC\'92s emergence, and I believe a similar kind of visionary thinking is needed now, especially in anticipation of the needs and goals of twenty-first-century scholarship\cf3 . (283)\
\
\cf2 ECCO uses ESTC data for bibliographical information, though many users of ECCO don\'92t realize the extent to which it depends on the ESTC. Users of ECCO also might not know how many eighteenth-century items it lacks. The ESTC contains over 340,000 eighteenth-century records; ECCO has about 180,000.
\fs16 \up10 5 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 ECCO contains searchable images of the books\'92 contents, which is especially desired in our search-crazed digital culture. Like ECCO, Google Books has searchable, digitized images, but unlike ECCO, it is free. Google, however, has for some unknown reason neglected to catalogue exactly what was being scanned from books held by the Bodleian Library, Harvard University, the University of Michigan, the New York Public Library, and other libraries. If, therefore, scholars want to know which eighteenth-century editions of Tom Jones appear in Google Books, they had better be prepared to embark on their own bibliographical quest because Google has made no effort to match what it has scanned to standard bibliographical reference tools, including the ESTC. In contrast, ECCO can be directly searched using ESTC numbers, and in the summer of 2011 the ESTC added links to ECCO. Bibliographically minded scholars trying to exploit the great resources of Google Books are currently forced \'93to tread the dreary paths without a guide.\'94
\fs16 \up10 6 
\fs24 \cf3 \up0  (284)\
p.284: So on the one hand, the ESTC has become more widely available and accessible than ever before. On the other hand, it appears to have been superseded by full-text databases, one of which costs a considerable amount of money to access.\

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Indeed, writing about the ESTC means acknowledging its omissions, errors, and inconsistencies. Many of these problems have been discussed in a series of essays over the last two decades, two of the most detailed of which are by James E. May. May has found many instances in which the ESTC does not identify a book as being a reissue of another edition; such an omission might cause a scholar to assume that the book had not been published before this reissue. He also found many pagination errors, inconsistencies in recording frontispieces, numerous errors in linking individual copies to the appropriate editions, outdated information regarding attribution, unreported copies at libraries that generally reported their holdings to the ESTC, and distinct editions that appear nowhere in the catalogue. His conclusion is a sobering one: \'93there is a one-in-three or -four likelihood of finding in the ESTC record an error or serious oversight in the description, in the item\'92s identity relative to other recorded items, or in the copies listed.\'94 \cf3 (285)\
\cf2 While researching this article, I discovered a small number of errors regarding bibliographical format. Some of these would be amusing to bibliographers, who know that formats such as 3
\fs16 \up10 o
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 , 5
\fs16 \up10 o
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 , 6
\fs16 \up10 o
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 , 7
\fs16 \up10 o
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 , and 9
\fs16 \up10 o 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 do not exist.
\fs16 \up10 8 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 (All of the errors I found have since been fixed.) Some of these minor mistakes probably resulted from transcription errors 
\fs24 \cf3 (285)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \'93\cf2 We spent an awful lot of time recording stuff manually. And for some years we put this all down on sheets of paper and keyed it in later. Because even though the British Library was building machine-readable files, everything was done manually and sent to a typing service and then keyed in by a typing service. That\'92s why there are so many, there were tens of thousands of errors created by that typing service. They\'92re still in there; we\'92re still getting them out.
\fs13\fsmilli6667 \up10 9 \cf3 \'93
\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \up0 	9.	\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Daniel J. Slive, \'93Exit Interview: Henry Snyder,\'94 RBM 2, no. 1 (2001): 73\'9692, on p. 86. \cf3 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93A broken record occurs when information added to a record has not been checked against the copies already listed under that record\'94 (Karian 285)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Tabor\'92s discussion offers one answer to James May\'92s pressing question, \'93Who will edit the ESTC?\'94 The answer seems to be: users will. Now when viewing an ESTC record, users can click on the \'93Error Report Form\'94 and describe the errors they have noticed. Such reports do in fact generate a helpful and timely response, as I have discovered after making a series of reports that elicited responses from Simon May at the British Library. One hopes that the British Library staff will be able to handle the volume of submitted error reports so that the accuracy and completeness of the ESTC file will continue to improve. But posting these corrections can\'92t fix the ESTC, because so many errors and inconsistencies pervade the file. 
\fs24 \cf3  (286)\cf2 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Why then did my search using the \'93Word(s) anywhere\'94 field not find any of these records? 
\fs24 \cf4 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Upon closer inspection, I saw that all of these records contain references to \'93not in Foxon\'94 in the Uncontrolled note, which is MARC field 509.
\fs16 \up10 12 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 For the results of my initial search, all the references to \'93not in Foxon\'94 appeared in the General note (MARC field 500) or Citation/references (MARC field 510), sometimes in addition to the Uncontrolled note. It seems, then, that informa- tion in the Uncontrolled note can be viewed but not searched. I don\'92t under- stand why this distinction would be made for a freely available online database that is undergoing constant revision. The Uncontrolled note is presumably a field for information that still needs to be verified (the ESTC\'92s help page does not mention this field at all), but the tentative nature of the information in this field could be indicated and the relevant information should be accessible to users\'92 searches. As long as information in the Uncon- trolled note is unavailable to searching, users will be prevented from exploring the full resources of the ESTC.
\fs16 \up10 13 
\fs24 \cf3 \up0  (287)\
\'93Only a thorough and  / painstaking search through all 1,255 records would reveal exactly how manyof them are Foxon items that do not appear in Foxon. Given that all of thisinformation has already been digitized, conducting such a search is anunnecessary expenditure of scholarly energy\'94 (287-288)\

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 This example demonstrates not only some limitations of the ESTC, but also the existence of two ESTC interfaces, one publicly available with some information visible but not searchable, the other available on a limited basis. This example also reveals a serious inconsistency in the way miscellaneous information has been stored. 
\fs24 \cf3 (288)\

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 To consider fully the limitations and possibilities of the ESTC requires examining it as a database rather than merely as a large-scale online library catalogue. And here is where the ESTC promises to be especially important, given recent interests in using quantitative information to study literary and cultural history. When applied to book production, this approach is sometimes referred to as bibliometric analysis, an approach that should expand our knowledge of publishing history in a way that was previously impossible. These projects may well challenge widely held views that are based more on legend and assumption than on fact. Recent illuminating examples of such approaches include Franco Moretti\'92s graphical analysis of the rises and falls of the novel in nations throughout the world, David L. Gants\'92s study of the early seventeenth-century book trade, and Steven N. Zwicker\'92s exploration of the category of Restoration literature.
\fs16 \up10 16 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 With its extensive collection of data, the ESTC promises to be an essential resource for similar investigations. \cf3 (289)\
\cf2 However, two key problems with the ESTC\'92s structure and its data will vex any effort to use the database for such purposes. The first problem relates to the unit of classification. A clearly defined unit is necessary to ensure that a study of change over time is reliable and based on consistent terms. What is the unit that the ESTC uses? Scholars sometimes answer by using the terms \'93edition,\'94 \'93issue,\'94 or \'93title\'94 interchangeably. But since the ESTC does not rely in a consistent manner on any of these terms for its unit of classification, one should refer instead only to the ESTC record, a unit created by the ESTC and having no meaning outside the ESTC. \cf3 (289)\
\cf2 An 
\i edition
\i0  (using the bibliographical meaning of an edition) encompasses all copies printed from essentially the same setting of type. An edition of a book may be reissued, perhaps with a new title-page referring to a \'93second edition\'94 or a \'93corrected edition.\'94 Despite the claims on the title-page, however, this new \'93edition\'94 is not a new edition at all if the setting of type has not significantly changed. In these situations, bibliographers would refer to multiple 
\i issues
\i0  of the same edition. A 
\i title
\i0  is an ambiguous and nonbibliographic term, possibly referring to all editions of a particular work (all editions of Hamlet, for example) or to a publication with a specifically phrased title. 
\fs24 \cf3 (289)\

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 For the most part, the ESTC contains a record for each issue 
\fs24 \cf3 (289)\

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 The ESTC\'92s practice of handling multi-volume sets is highly variable, sometimes assigning one record for an entire set, sometimes one record for each volume, and sometimes for both the set and each volume. Reissues of individual volumes complicate this kind of situation even further. \cf3 \'85 \cf2 The ESTC\'92s somewhat ad hoc method of assigning multiple records in these instances stems from the complexity of the bibliographical situation.
\fs16 \up10 17 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 Anyone who studies early printed books for a brief but intense period will quickly learn that it is no simple matter to untangle the knots of multiple issues and states. In addition, the ESTC\'92s use of multiple records often assists cataloguers trying to match their holdings to the ESTC. It is much easier to compare a title- page to its ESTC transcription than it is to investigate the history of a work\'92s multiple editions, issues, and states. But the consequence of this ease of use for cataloguers is that the database cannot serve the interests of certain areas of scholarly inquiry. Because of the highly variable meaning of the term \'93ESTC record,\'94 the results of any large-scale search cannot be reliably compared to the results of another search. 
\fs24 \cf3  (290)\
\'93
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 the only way to avoid such a problem with the ESTC in its current form is to check every single record of a search, an astonishingly laborious process.\cf3 \'94 (291)\
\cf2 And none of this gets us any closer to an appropriate unit of classification. Even if the ESTC used a bibliographically defined \'93edition\'94 as its unit, a broadsheet would be treated as equivalent to a 1,000-page volume, an equivalence that would usually distort our understanding of publishing trends. 
\b One way to avoid using such an equivalence would be to adopt the unit of the \'93edition sheet\'94 for the number of sheets of paper needed to produce one copy of the edition.
\b0  Thus a broadsheet would be equivalent to a sixteen- page octavo edition.
\fs16 \up10 19 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 This unit still cannot tell us how many copies of each edition were printed\'97the evidence for such information is usually lost to us\'97 nor can it tell us how many readers there were for each copy. But it would certainly offer a standard definition that could be used in a comparative manner and allow us at last to compare apples to apples. An ideally con- structed ESTC would be multidimensional in a way that would allow users to select a preferred unit of classification and change it at will. 
\fs24 \cf3 (291)\

\b\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 The second problem with using the ESTC to investigate publishing patterns derives from how it dates books whose imprints lack dates of publication.
\b0  Dates in an ESTC record appear in two MARC fields: 008 and 260. A search for a particular year will find a record with that year in either of these fields. The ESTC sometimes records the date as questionable, and sometimes records the date within a range. But when one does a large-scale search for records\'97for example, everything from 1720\'97there is no easy way to screen out items not definitively dated to 1720, such as items known to have been published in 1721 before March 25 (those records read \'931720 [i.e. 1721]\'94); items with uncertain dates (namely records dated somewhere around 1720); or items with dates given in a range in which 1720 is on one end of that range. If, therefore, one wants to find the total number of records that can be confidently dated to a particular year, one should expect a degree of overcounting. \cf3 (291)\
\cf2 The years 1720 and 1730 (and to\cf3  a somewhat lesser extent 1725) contain more \cf2 total records than the other years represented in this table, and they also contain significantly more records of uncertain dates. 
\b The major fluctuations in this table do not necessarily reveal anything about publishing patterns in this decade, but rather the manner in which ESTC records are dated when their dates of publication are not known
\b0 : they are assigned to the closest year possible, which often means the year at the nearest five- or ten-year interval (in this respect, the ESTC follows British Library cataloguing rules). Thus any study of changes over time will reveal artificial \'93peaks\'94 in the data at five- and especially ten-year intervals, which in turn will vitiate efforts to study press production within a narrowly defined window. \cf3 (292)\
\cf2 Clearly, MARC records were not originally designed for early printed books. Therefore the use of MARC records is an uncomfortable fit with the kinds of items the ESTC catalogues. It seems to me that the only way to improve the ESTC as a database would be to supplement MARC records with another database structure. 
\fs24 \cf3  (293)\cf4 \
\
\
\
}