{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In his 1800 Preface to the Lyrical Ballads, Wordsworth connects contemporary politics, \'93the great national events which are daily taking place,\'94 with population density, \'93the increasing accumulation of men in cities,\'94 an technologically accellerated information gathering, \'93the rapid communication of intelligence.\'94 This culture of eventfulness, growth, and speed produces, in turn, a \'93craving for extraordinary incident,\'94 which is met by the publication of news, \'93frantic novels,\'94 \'93sickly and stupid German Tragedies,\'94 and tales in verse. Discuss this late eighteenth-century concatenation of politics, population, technology, literature, and media, with reference to at least three texts from your reading list. Against what is Wordsworth reacting, and how does the Lyrical Ballads serve as a response in terms of both form and content?\
\
Wordsworth reacts both to a near-apocalyptic sense of social change, and to market forces creating new audiences. I actually agree with his concatenation of social turmoil with an urgent sense of timeliness and responsiveness in literary publication. His reaction to social change is to aestheticize and distance. We can see this reaction as a choice through contrast with Barbauld\'92s 1811. His reaction to the market forces, as Gamer and St Clair discuss, is to have his cake and eat it too. We can see this stance as a choice through comparison with Hannah More. In both reactions, he attempts to present the Lyrical Ballads as timeless and transcendental, while in fact demonstrating the same timely responsiveness that he wishes to escape.}