{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 In 2005 the TCP was thinking about themselves as competing with Google: \'93John Price-Wilkin, Associate University Librarian for Library Information Technology & Technical and Access Services, was a guest of the Board to talk about issues relating to the Google initiative and TCP\'92s role in promoting \'93enhanced\'94 product to the library and academic community. TCP does have an important role in noting that OCR text, though good for many things, cannot serve all purposes scholars need, and TCP should continue to argue for structured electronic text for at least a portion of the collection.\'94 (TCP Executive Board, \'93Meeting Minutes 2005-10-20.\'94)\
\
\'94When the library at Alexandria burned it was said to be an \'93international catastrophe.\'94 When the most significant humanities project of our time was dismantled in court, the scholars, archivists, and librarians who\'92d had a hand in its undoing breathed a sigh of relief, for they believed, at the time, that they had narrowly averted disaster.\'94 (Somers)\
\
\'93He offered the library a deal: You let us borrow all your books, he said, and we\'92ll scan them for you. You\'92ll end up with a digital copy of every volume in your collection, and Google will end up with access to one of the great untapped troves of data left in the world. Brin put Google\'92s lust for library books this way: \'93You have thousands of years of human knowledge, and probably the highest-quality knowledge is captured in books.\'94 What if you could feed all the knowledge that\'92s locked up on paper to a search engine?\
By 2004, Google had started scanning. In just over a decade, after making deals with Michigan, Harvard, Stanford, Oxford, the New York Public Library, and dozens of other library systems, the company, outpacing Page\'92s prediction, had scanned about 25 million books. It cost them an estimated $400 million. It was a feat not just of technology but of logistics.\'94 (Somers)\
\
\'93The human operator would turn pages by hand\'97no machine could be as quick and gentle\'94 (Somers)\
\
\'93It was the first project that Google ever called a \'93moonshot.\'94 Before the self-driving car and Project Loon\'97their effort to deliver Internet to Africa via high-altitude balloons\'97it was the idea of digitizing books that struck the outside world as a wide-eyed dream. Even some Googlers themselves thought of the project as a boondoggle. \'93There were certainly lots of folks at Google that while we were doing Google Book Search were like, Why are we spending all this money on this project?,\'94 Clancy said to me. \'93Once Google started being a little more conscious about how it was spending money, it was like, wait, you have $40 million a year, $50 million a year on the cost of scanning? It\'92s gonna cost us $300 to $400 million before we\'92re done? What are you thinking? But Larry and Sergey were big supporters.\'94\'94 (Somers)\
\
\'93Out-of-print books, almost by definition, were commercial dead weight. If Google, through mass digitization, could make a new market for them, that would be a real victory for authors and publishers. \'93We realized there was an opportunity to do something extraordinary for readers and academics in this country,\'94 Richard Sarnoff, who was then Chairman of the American Association of Publishers, said at the time. \'93We realized that we could light up the out-of-print backlist of this industry for two things: discovery and consumption.\'94 But once you had that goal in mind, the lawsuit itself\'97which was about whether Google could keep scanning and displaying snippets\'97began to seem small time. Suppose the Authors Guild won: they were unlikely to recoup anything more than the statutory minimum in damages; and what good would it do to stop Google from providing snippets of old books? If anything those snippets might drive demand. And suppose Google won: Authors and publishers would get nothing, and all readers would get for out-of-print books would be snippets\'97not access to full texts. The plaintiffs, in other words, had gotten themselves into a pretty unusual situation. They didn\'92t want to lose their own lawsuit\'97but they didn\'92t want to win it either.\'94 (Somers)\
But the ambitious class-action settlement was nixed by the Department of Justice, so Google wouldn\'92t have a monopoly. \'93No one is quite sure why the DOJ decided to take a stand instead of remaining neutral. Dan Clancy, the Google engineering lead on the project who helped design the settlement, thinks that it was a particular brand of objector\'97not Google\'92s competitors but \'93sympathetic entities\'94 you\'92d think would be in favor of it, like library enthusiasts, academic authors, and so on\'97that ultimately flipped the DOJ. \'93I don\'92t know how the settlement would have transpired if those naysayers hadn\'92t been so vocal,\'94 he told me. \'93It\'92s not clear to me that if the libraries and the Bob Darntons and the Pam Samuelsons of the world hadn\'92t been so active that the Justice Department ever would have become involved, because it just would have been Amazon and Microsoft bitching about Google. Which is like yeah, tell me something new.\'94\'94 (Somers)\
\'93\'93This is not important enough for the Congress to somehow adjust copyright law,\'94 Clancy said. \'93It\'92s not going to get anyone elected. It\'92s not going to create a whole bunch of jobs.\'94 It\'92s no coincidence that a class action against Google turned out to be perhaps the only plausible venue for this kind of reform: Google was the only one with the initiative, and the money, to make it happen. \'93If you want to look at this in a raw way,\'94 Allan Adler, in-house counsel for the publishers, said to me, \'93a deep pocketed, private corporate actor was going to foot the bill for something that everyone wanted to see.\'94 Google poured resources into the project, not just to scan the books but to dig up and digitize old copyright records, to negotiate with authors and publishers, to foot the bill for a Books Rights Registry. Years later, the Copyright Office has gotten nowhere with a proposal that re-treads much the same ground, but whose every component would have to be funded with Congressional appropriations.\'94(Somers)\
}