{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red252\green111\blue207;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 Love\'92s later article, \'93Close Reading and Thin Description,\'94 provides a more precise articulation of the kind of close reading that she calls for, in which an \'93exhaustive, fine-grained attention to phenomena\'94 (404) enables \'93taking up the position of the device; by turning oneself into a camera, one could\'97at least ideally\'97pay equal attention to every aspect of a scene that is available to the senses and record it faithfully\'94 (407). Although Love is uninterested in \'93distant reading\'94 as synonymous with Moretti (Love 411), this invocation of the mechanical implies, I argue, an obvious potential for computation.\cf3  The actual 
\i practice
\i0  of computational research requires a great deal of laborious, intimate encoding.\cf0  \cf3 The researcher must occupy a \cf4 \'93\cf3 mechanical\cf4 \'94\cf3  position\cf4  of receiving inputs and responding to them consistently over time, whether entering details in a spreadsheet with a consistent taxonomy or running the same program over multiple {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A7E6E9EF-9F3C-47C2-95E9-CE3E79013114"}}{\fldrslt datasets.}} \cf0 Love says:\cb1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\li720\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 <!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 Good descriptions are in a sense rich, but not because they truck with imponderables like human experience or human nature. They are close, but they are not deep; rather than adding anything \'91extra\'92 to the description, they account for the real variety that is already there. (377)
\f3 \cb1 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \cb2 <!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 A computational model is unlikely to \'93truck with imponderables,\'94 but it 
\i absolutely
\i0  
\i must
\i0  \'93account for the real variety that is already there\'94 or else the code will simply fail to run. If you are forced to manually encode your assumptions into a system, you are forced to confront what they are. Even deleting or ignoring information is still a way of \'93accounting for\'94 it in the coding process: some part of the program will have to say, in effect, \'91if I get an input that doesn\'92t match what I expect, discard it.\'92 Choosing to ignore contradictory or difficult information carries the assumption that this information does not \'91count,\'92 or does not matter to the question at hand. The choice faced by scholars is how to address our encoded assumptions.\cf4  The encounter with variety does not in itself produce nuanced results: it is possible to selectively ignore any uncomfortable details.\cf0  \cf4 Bu\cf0 t \cf4 it \cf0 is \cf4 also \cf0 possible to do computation reflectively, asking not \'93how can I make this work the way I want?\'94 but \'93where do my assumptions encounter resistance?\'94 \cf4 and turning one\'92s attention to the nature of the resistance. \cf0 Integrating this reflection into the research process can allow a scholar to \cf4 avoid both the pitfalls of\cf0  \cf4 \'93\cf0 conquer\cf4 ing\'94\cf0  their material \cf4 and of\cf0  claim\cf4 ing\cf0  an algorithmic grasp of \cf4 \'93\cf0 objective\cf4 \'94\cf0  truth. 
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}