{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Hart divides the works hosted on Project Gutenberg into three categories: \'93light literature,\'94 \'93heavy literature,\'94 and \'93references.\'94\
\
A core early selection method was relevance to pop culture. It is desirable for 
\i Peter Pan
\i0  to be accessible because people have just seen the movie 
\i Hook
\i0 ; it is desirable for Moby Dick to be accessible because it is referenced in 
\i Star Trek
\i0 . Hart imagines reading motivated by natural curiosity, not building into an institutionally recognizable status as an \'91educated person.\'92\
\
34 heavy literature; 42 light literature; 24 references\
\
More recent additions to Project Gutenberg are less likely to have this kind of immediate name recognition. Looking at the first 100 titles added in 2020, for example, we see titles like \'93Shafting, Pulleys, Belting and Rope Transmission [Subtitle: The Power Handbooks Library]\'94 and \'93The Archives of Dentistry Vol. 7 No. 12 December 1890.\'94\
But I don\'92t want to imply that Project Gutenberg has run out of valuable books to digitize. From the lens of expanding the canon, Project Gutenberg has just added \'93Chains and Freedom [Subtitle: or, The Life and Adventure of Peter Wheeler, a Colored Man Yet Living]\'94  }