{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green13\blue16;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c14118\c6275\c7451;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The talk on adding PG book to the NYPL\'92s collection begins with \'93We all know Project Gutenberg, we all use Project Gutenberg in our demo applications we present here, we read the books.\'94\
\'93I\'92m sure you already know that the text of a Project Gutenberg books is \'85 a very high quality text.\'94\
But \'93Project Gutenberg does not play by the rules of the publishing industry, it plays by the rules of the internet.\'94\
\'93Project Gutenberg puts out books with no regard for whether there\'92s a market for the book, whether there\'92s an audience of people who will read it. I think this is great, but it does complicate the situation for a library. The reason project Gutenberg can get away with this\'97 well, it\'92s a volunteer project, they can do what they want\'97 the reason it 
\i works
\i0  is because the Project Gutenberg search experience is great.\'94 If you put a book title into a search engine, google will show you the PG edition of that book. But the browse experience is lousy: \'93If you don\'92t know the exact book you are looking for, the experience is really lousy.\'94\
The library pays money to other people who did the annoying work of mirroring PG books and repackaging them, purchasing access to public domain books: \'93We pay to license DRM encumbered editions of public domain materials, most of which were originally sourced from Project Gutenberg.\
\
He measured the \'91classicness\'92 of books by looking at OCLC data on how many editions of the book have been published and how many library holdings they have. \'93When we think about classic books, we think of a book whose enduring popularity allows us to think of the popularity as a synonym for quality.\'94\
\
\'93Project Gutenberg, it\'92s a firehose, there\'92s a ton of books in here, most of the books are bad\'97 but guess what, the same thing is true of commercial publishing. And this is the job of the library, it is to get control of the output of publishing and figure out which book is the right book for this patron.\'94\
\
On the slide: \'93Project Gutenberg is a firehose with a huge backlog. But so is commercial publishing! The circulating library\'92s job is to master the firehose and match readers to books. Gutenberg books are more difficult to integrate, but the readers are there and the price is right.\'94\
\
In Q&A, re applying the \'93classics\'94 metrics to other books: \'93When you get away from classics, the notions of popularity and quality become disconnected. Which is not to be snobs and we won\'92t lend out books that are popular which we don\'92t think are very good, we certainly will do that because that\'92s what people want, but they need to be measured separately. If a book is like that, we need to know why we\'92re lending it out, are we doing it because it\'92s super popular but mediocre or because it\'92s popular and good.\'94\
\
Abstract: \'93\cf4 Although Project Gutenberg provides a good amount of RDF metadata for each of its publications, the metadata most necessary to grab a modern reader\'92s attention\'96a summary and a nice-looking cover\'96is almost always missing. Without putting restrictions on Project Gutenberg, which is extraordinarily successful at what it does, how can we present its results in a way that appeals to our patrons and customers?\cf2 \'94}