{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Like literary canons, these corpora \'97 especially smaller ones, like the Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation Partnership \'97 are vulnerable to a critique of their selection methods on the grounds of representation. However, unlike the various changing literary canons of the past, digital corpora tend to conceal which particular titles have been selected as representative. I argue that Charlotte Smith\'92s inclusion in these resources lags behind a scholarly consensus which sees her as increasingly important and canonical in the period. Her partial inclusion in ECCO-TCP seems particularly likely to lead to ill-supported conclusions by researchers who might easily assume that their text-mining research is taking her works into consideration. However, since none of her sonnets are included, nor any of the politically radical novels which made up a substantial portion of her latter career, nor any of her natural history, some of her most important contributions to the literature of the period are not able to impact studies in which they would be relevant. In particular, a study of women\'92s writing through the lens of the ECCO-TCP would emphasize the most conventional and expected women\'92s writing from Smith, with four volumes of one of her more straightforward marriage plot novels.\
Exploring the technical affordances of the copies of Smith\'92s works available in each database also shows why the distorted impression of Smith\'92s works reflected in the ECCO-TCP\'92s corpus is likely to persist and continue to be reproduced: without the foundation of a reliable but transformable text (in the form of a human-corrected transcription, rather than a page image or machine OCR), there is a nearly insurmountable technical barrier before any individual project. Even to assess the accuracy of the OCR texts in ECCO and HathiTrust, I must rely on ECCO-TCP. Guillory has already argued persuasively that representation in literary canons is a matter of selection, not of exclusion, that the default state for a given text is not to be included. For Guillory, this serves as a proof that sexism and racism are rarely the direct cause of a particular text lacking canonical status; the role of social oppression in limiting textual representation occurs before scholars make their choices, when classes of people are systematically excluded from the means of textual production in the first place, limiting what we may select from. In the case of digital corpora, also, I see that the rhetoric of \'93exclusion\'94 is not accurate, and directs attention away from the more complex systems at play. Although I critique the failure of ECCO-TCP to include important and relevant works by Charlotte Smith, it does not seem that she has been excluded out of a prejudice against women\'92s writing. Most likely, The Emigrants and Celestina were chosen because copies were conveniently accessible to a particular scholar involved in the creation of the ECCO-TCP, perhaps even directly related to a research question which would motivate them through the mind-numbing process of retyping long volumes of prose. Once these works had entered ECCO-TCP, they will naturally be re-used for text mining research which implicitly trusts the original selection. In this way, representation in digital corpora is a matter of infrastructure.}