{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 This dissertation is concerned with the process by which texts do or don\'92t \'91enter\'92 into \'91canons\'92 of writings, particularly in [the context of digital resources which present themselves as alternatives to canons]. My \'91case study\'92 is the writing published in England between 1789 and 1799, [A PERIOD THAT IS RELEVANT TO MY QUESTION]. I say \'93writing\'94 and not \'93literature,\'94 despite the fact that my central interest 
\i is
\i0  literature, because I address works whose status as \'93literary\'94 is contested. I also say \'93published\'94 rather than \'93written,\'94 because I address the \'931790s-ness\'94 of works written well before this decade, but which took on new and timely meanings when reprinted.\cf2 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The other \'93great unread\'94 that even distant reading doesn\'92t read: the things that aren\'92t in corpora\cf2 .\cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In service of this goal, this dissertation seeks to determine, in as minute detail as possible, what the print landscape in England 1789-99 was actually like. It also seeks to explain, in equally minute detail, why this task of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B0D0AB86-EC3A-4CF0-ABA2-C4B37B32C684"}}{\fldrslt \'91objective\'92 historical recovery is}}, in fact, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://576142D0-DC1C-4050-9C08-8A4CFAB04668"}}{\fldrslt impossible}}. In the process, I show how our persistently perplexing questions about canons can be asked, and answered, in new ways with digital tools. Computational methods, in their close association with \'91big data\'92, are often advertised {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://45C3638C-EA47-42BC-854B-7B49329F3FDC"}}{\fldrslt as the solution to the problems of scale which are presumed to motivate the formation of selective canons}}. As my own computational experimentation will reveal, however, computational study more commonly undertakes the same judgment and valuation of texts that characterizes \'91canon formation,\'92 and displaces this process onto \'91corpus building.\'92 It is difficult, when faced with flawed and complex competing narratives, to resist the impulse to simply critique and reject all options. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://01513637-4172-4140-A2CE-90D410203990"}}{\fldrslt \cb3 If we may learn any lessons from the 1790s, however, surely one must be the danger of universal paranoia.}} Accordingly, this dissertation takes place within three scholarly conversations: the digital humanities, as an increasingly self-reflective set of practices; eighteenth century studies, and the challenges presented by the 1790s; and the frameworks of reparative reading within queer theory which seem to offer valuable resources for both. The remainder of this chapter will describe in more detail the relevant scholarship in all three fields, then discuss the overlaps between them which enable my work. Finally, this chapter will conclude with a description of the two computational experiments which drive the dissertation as a whole, situating them within the three fields, and providing a sketch of their development across the dissertation.}