{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 ECCO, as a distinct resource, is a historic latecomer compared to EEBO. The initial microfilms were created in [???] by [???]. In 2003, Thomson Gale began making digital copies of the Eighteenth Century Collection microfilms available to subscribers online. The digital images were made from the microfilm masters, which were 400 dpi, and thus higher resolution than the microfilm copies. \
\
\'93the move from microfilms to the Internet has meant easier searching, easier physical access, easier manipulation of the images, clearer images and (for the UK at least) cheaper institutional access\'94 (Gadd 685).\
\
\cf3 \'93However, the path to digitization was not ideal: these documents were imaged in the late 1970s, transformed into microfilm during the 1980s, and the microfilms digitized in the 1990s. Because of the state of reproductive technologies during the late 20th century, as well as the circuitous path to digitization (through microfilm), the image quality is very poor and bitonal, with no greyscale / images available. Furthermore, the original documents themselves, printed with premodern technologies, pose problems even for human readers of their pages, but much more so for optical character recognition (OCR) engines. For example, printed characters were not perfectly situated on a baseline, blackletter fonts were used, ink bled through the paper, and the typeface was broken and overworn.\'94 (Christy et al. 1-2)\
Reference \'93deep fried memes\'94 \'97 xkcd comic: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://xkcd.com/1683/"}}{\fldrslt https://xkcd.com/1683/}}\cf2 \
\
The microfilms were scanned at 300 dpi (Spedding 440).\
\
\'93while ESTC may be based on two thousand public and private libraries worldwide, the Eighteenth Century microfilm series is based on books from only a tiny fraction of that number - almost certainly less than twenty libraries, and rarely anywhere other than the British Library, the Bodleian, Harvard, and the Hunt\'94 (Spedding 440)}