{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Bullard suggests tentatively that university presses might be site of bridging efforts between the non-profit and for-profit worlds, but where we can actually see an example occurring is in the Text Creation Partnership. \cf3 The TCP\cf2  attempted to intervene in the system with \cf3 \'93a public-private partnership, led by libraries\'94 (TCP, \'93About\'94)\cf2 ; their\cf3  \cf2 materials\cf3  emphasize the \'93librarian\'92s attitude toward content\'94 which prioritizes the widest possible access and use. This \'93librarian\'92s attitude\'94 is most evident in the (eventual) availability of all of the transcriptions in the public domain, despite the fact that the images they are based on remain privately restricted by the companies which own them. Their description of the \'93partnership,\'94 however, continues to show signs of the strain in value systems when commercial and noncommercial goals are intertwined: \'93Through our partnership with private vendors, we had access to a huge trove of images from which to transcribe. In return, these companies were supplied with a full-text index to their images \'97work which would have otherwise been difficult or expensive to produce.\'94 In other words, through purchasing a service (access to images), the academic institution\cf2 s\cf3  received that service. These \cf2 academic \cf3 institutions carried out an enormous feat of labour at their own expense, using the service they purchased. Then, \'93in return,\'94 they provided the results of their labour to the company, for the company to then further profit from the improvements to their service. Most telling, here, is the word \'93otherwise\'94\cf2  in calling this \'93\cf3 work which would have otherwise been difficult or expensive to produce\cf2 .\'94\cf3  The suggestion here is that, without the TCP, the companies themselves would not have been willing to undertake the encoding \cf2 that was \cf3 so desired by the users of their service. However, the TCP certainly did not make the task any less difficult or expensive. Instead, academic institutions absorbed the difficulty and expense on those companies\'92 behalf. I do not say that they were wrong to do so: on the contrary, the \'93librarian\'92s attitude\'94 mirrors my own attitude, and it is surely to everyone\'92s benefit for a wonderful thing to exist even if that wonderful thing is not profitable. Rather, I highlight this rhetorical moment in the TCP\'92s self description to suggest that it takes two to collaborate\cf2 , and that no amount of effort on the librarians\'92 part can change the core institutional drive of a private company\cf3 .\cf2  Companies like Gale are perfectly happy to help achieve maximally useful scholarly resources if doing so it also a good way to turn a profit, but this does not mean that they have the same goals as academic institutions. \cf3 One of the three key aims of the TCP identified on the homepage is to \'93collaborate with commercial providers, rather than constantly bargaining and competing with them\'94 (TCP \'93Welcome\'94). However, the TCP seems instead to have simply come up with a 
\i \cf3 better
\i0 \cf3  bargain, one which creatively offers scholarly labour as a bargaining chip.}