{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 In contrast to the brevity of Radcliffe\'92s bibliography and biography stands the mountain of secondary writing on her works. \cb2 [NOTE: This section remains incomplete, with only a rough sketch of the literature review in place.] \cb1 During her lifetime, Radcliffe was widely reviewed and discussed. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0B96D1E5-994A-4863-A5C9-EA152ACFB4B8"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Scholars}}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 have often examined Radcliffe\'92s responsiveness to reviews of her works, with each new novel changing the aspects which was critiqued most strongly in the previous.  [So she ultimately produces Gothics that reviewers are willing to accept on their own moral terms \'97 and therefore Gothics which subsequent generation are willing to accept/praise?]\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
At her death in 1823, despite the twenty-six years since her last publication, an outpouring of obituaries marked her as an esteemed literary genius. Much of this praise followed the template so famously set out in Walter Scott\'92s \'91Prefatory Memoir to Mrs Ann Radcliffe\'92 in the tenth volume of James Ballantyne\'92s Novelist\'92s Library series. Despite Scott\'92s dismissive attitude toward the other romances that beguiled his youth, \'93he nonetheless takes care to defend the unquestionable genius of Ann Radcliffe on at least three accounts: her presiding over \'91a separate and distinct species of writing\'92 (Scott 1824: xx); her ability to sustain her readers\'92 interest and attention across three major novels \'85 and her exploration of extreme human passions in appropriately southern European settings\'94 (Townshend and Wright 5-6).\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Since Scott, Radcliffe has continued to be consistently praised and studied, often in ways that establish the worthlessness of works similar to her; a \'91token\'92 who justifies the exclusion of women or feminine writing.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  In 2014, the volume 
\i Ann Radcliffe, Romanticism and the Gothic,
\i0  edited by Dale Townshend and Angela Wright, commemorated 250 years since Radcliffe\'92s birth. In this volume, Radcliffe has weathered multiple changes in the critical landscape\'94 \'93\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Once-dominant psychoanalytic and feminist interpretations have given way to critical work drawing on political and religious history, print culture studies, theories of media and remediation, and new formalism\'94 (Carson 127).
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}