{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Garamond;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red32\green66\blue167;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c16078\c34902\c71373;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ECS follows the Chicago Manual of Style 17th Edition.\uc0\u8232 ECS word limit for submissions is 7,000\'979,000 words (including endnotes).
\f1\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Manuscripts should not exceed 9,000 words, including notes. Style must conform to\'a0The Chicago Manual of Style 17th Edition, with footnotes.\'a0
\b Please consult our style guide carefully prior to submission, as failure to conform with the guidelines may result in the editorial office returning your submission.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.press.jhu.edu/sites/default/files/ECS-Style-Guidelines.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Our style guide can be found here.}}\'a0
\b0 Quotations from foreign texts should appear in the body of the essay followed by translations. Please supply an abstract of 100 or fewer words with your paper. Illustrations are accepted if pertinent to the essay (authors must secure glossy prints or digital files and reproduction rights if the essay is accepted).\'a0
\b It is the journal's policy to require assignment of copyright from all authors.
\b0 \'a0Authors must obtain written permission for quoting unpublished or published material in excess of fair use.}