{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
First experiment: identify gender make-up of databases.
\b0  (Write a program in R)\
\cf2 \'93Opening the \'91Black Box\'92 of Literary Databases: Gender in Eighteenth-Century Archives.\'94 University of Toronto Graduate English Conference. Toronto, ON, April 24.\cf0 \
\

\b Second experiment: identify genre make-up of databases. 
\b0 (Develop something using topic modelling of titles.) \
\cf2 \'93A Romance By Any Other Name: Topic Modelling for an Ontology of 1790s Genres.\'94 Keystone DH. Philadelphia, PA, July 8-10.\cf0 \
\

\b Correlate gender and genre in databases,
\b0  make some graphs, make some arguments.\
\cf2 \'93Women\'92s Writing in the Eighteenth Century: Evaluating \'91Representative\'92 Corpora.\'94 Poster. Digital Humanities. Ottawa, ON. July 22-24, 2020.\cf0 \
\cf2 \'93Visualizing \cf0 the Print Mediascape of\cf2  the 1790s.\'94 North American Society for the Study of Romanticism. Toronto, ON, August 6-8, 2020.\cf0 \
\

\b Third experiment: something something reprinting?
\b0\fs10 \cf2 \

\fs24 \cf2 \'93\cf0 When Was 1790s Literature Written? A Data Exploration of Reprinting.\cf2 \'94 Canadian Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies. Winnipeg, MB, October 21-24, 2020.\cf0 \
\

\b Correlate reprinting with gender and genre
\b0 , make some arguments.\
\cf2 \'93\cf0 Corpora as the New Canons: Women in Eighteenth-Century Databases.\cf2 \'94 Modern Languages Association. Toronto, ON, January 5-7, 202\cf0 1\cf2 .}