{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue17;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6275\c6667\c8627;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Characteristics of a High Quality Thesis 
\i0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa266\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The title clearly reflects the focus and the argument. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa266\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A significant and substantial problem has been selected for investigation. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
There is an early statement of the project aims. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The project presents a considerable advance on existing knowledge. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The thesis demonstrates a systematic pursuit of a consistent line of inquiry. \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
It is well-planned and executed, with each section clearly building on the last (that is, there is a coherent and unifying macro-level structure). \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
There is clear signposting and linking between paragraphs, sections, and chapters. It consistently (but not repetitively) reminds the reader of the purpose, argument, or overall thrust of the thesis. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The literature review is critical and evaluative, and sets forth an argument for why and how the study should be conducted. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The discussion of the rationale for selecting a methodology and method (including up-to-date methodological literature) is balanced. The ground-setting is sophisticated and appropriate (including exposition of underlying assumptions, and relevance to the research aim). \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The research design is appropriate and allows the questions to be answered. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
There is a meticulous account of the procedure. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A rich variety of evidence is employed to develop a balanced argument. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Advanced analytical skills are used to demonstrate a deep understanding of the problem; a clear chain of evidence is laid down. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The discussion is disciplined and not excessively speculative. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Conclusions are well drawn and convincing (they relate the outcomes back to the research aims); clear and strong knowledge claims are made about the exact contributions of the thesis. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Key concepts or variables are clearly defined and consistently used throughout. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Written expression is elegant, precise, and economical. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
There is evidence of systematic proofreading and error correction. }