{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reviewed by: 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\i\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Thomas Reinert 
\i0\fs24 \cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 p.222: Guillory argues that reforming school syllabi oers only a kind of symptomatic relief for cultural discrimination. Much more important is the exclusivity of schools themselves, and, with them, the forces that work to make literature feel exclusive.\
p.222: Guillory argues that schools have repeatedly reconstituted not just the canon but the general practice of literary study so as to align it with the changing interests of the bourgeoisie. In each case, there was a struggle over what it meant socially to study literature, and in each case schools restricted that study to an educated elite by way of insuring literacy\'92s prestige, class ailiation, and what Guillory calls its \'93cultural capital.\'94\
p.223: He rejects the view of relativists who believe that aesthetic judgment merely reflects in a roundabout or mystified form a community\'92s practical interests. The aesthetic has its peculiar feeling and density, he claims; it cannot be reduced to a purely economic eect. On the other hand, neither does it appear apart from political and economic struggle. This is literally true, he argues, in the intellectual history of aesthetic and economic theory.\
P.223: . Perhaps most powerful is the chapter on de Man. It moves with remarkable deharisma, Guillory speaks of how de Man brought charisma to routinization. De Man lost his following unjustly as a result of the scandal surrounding his wartime journalism. The critique here of his strange mode of subversiveness makes for a much more satisfactory challenge to his intellectual authority.\
p.223-4: The suppleness of the book\'92s argument overall places Guillory just where it feels right to be. He does not argue for the demolition of the canon or for the abandonment of aesthetic judgment; he advocates, [End Page 223] rather, a struggle to disjoin the study of literature from markers of class prestige and to open up universal access to it. He is, among other things, a lover of books, and he wants everyone to be able to read as many of them as possible.}