{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Moreover, as in eighteenth century texts themselves, the boundary between \'93canonical\'94 and \'93noncanonical\'94 digital archives is a permeable one: Google Books and the Internet Archive are also integrated into HathiTrust, an increasingly popular resource for scholars. HathiTrust\'92s collection contains digitized content from \'93a variety of sources, including Google, the Internet Archive, Microsoft, and in-house member institution initiatives\'94 \\cite\{HathiTrust:2019vs\}. The \'93in-house member institutions\'94 are six consortia (such as the University of California state university system), and one hundred and forty-nine individual universities and colleges \\cite\{HathiTrust:2019ti\}. The aggregate scholarly authority of these institutions carries the weight of elevating HathiTrust above the Google Books scans which form the backbone of much of its contents: \'93The members ensure the reliability and efficiency of the digital library,\'94 the website assures us, \'93by relying on community standards and best practices\'94 \\cite\{HathiTrust:2019vs\}. The collection itself is always expanding: the website contains a dedicated set of instructions for \'93Getting Content Into HathiTrust,\'94 providing an \'93Ingest Checklist\'94 for those who might contribute either existing or new digitized content \\cite\{HathiTrust:2019tf\}. The texts themselves are all stored as facsimile page images and full-text OCR transcripts. In order to comply with copyright law, however, HathiTrust only provides large-scale downloads and OCR transcripts for texts which are in the public domain. What does, in fact, distinguish HathiTrust from similar repositories is its commitment to enabling fair use and research-based access to texts as much as possible. Rather than favouring maximum restriction of access for maximum protection from legal complaints, HathiTrust has innovated several ways to allow scholars to carry out text-mining analysis on copyrighted texts. The scholarly benefit of HathiTrust is most evident, therefore, in the study of contemporary literature, where copyright has been a major barrier to study. However, eighteenth century texts are so firmly in the public domain that copyright issues rarely arise; instead, the major challenge in building large-scale corpora of transcripts (rather than facsimiles) is the resistance of eighteenth century typefaces to OCR. Especially since many eighteenth century digital facsimiles are themselves fascimiles of microfiche (with resulting loss of image fidelity), running an eighteenth century page image through OCR software generally produces useless gibberish. As a result, HathiTrust\'92s key intervention \'97 using OCR to circumvent copyright restrictions \'97 has limited applicability to eighteenth century studies.}