{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'94subject heading assignment is pragmatic and heuristic rather than an exercise in truth and accuracy. \'85normally the question to be asked is whether they are good or bad, helpful or irrelevant, rather than true (accurate) or false (incorrect). The assignment of subject headings cannot and need not conform to the same standards that apply to descriptive bibliography in the tradition of W. W. Greg and Fredson Bowers. What descriptive accuracy is to cataloging and bibliography, 
\i consistency
\i0  is to the assignment of subject headings.\'94 (Garrett 69)\
\
\'93While the English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC) contains Library of Congress Subject Headings (hereafter: LCSH) for books from the English-speaking world printed before 1701, entries for material dating from 1701 to 1800 are not subject indexed.\'94 (Garrett 70)\
\'93An already difficult situation has been aggravated recently by the sudden (and otherwise hugely welcome) availability of a new and mammoth library of searchable eighteenth-century text online through Thomson Gale\'92s Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO).\'94 (Garrett 70)\
\'93Northwestern harvested records from WorldCat containing subject headings for eighteenth-century titles in ECCO.\'94 (Garrett 71)\
They found that roughly 60% of the material located in a search for \'93East India Trading Company\'94 was only found due to the subject headings, and would not have been found by a simple keyword search. (Garrett 73-4)\
\'93Shortly a
\f1 ft
\f0 er completion of this manuscript, The British Library announced that it intended to add LCSH to all 18th-century records in the ESTC by autumn 2007. The subject headings extracted by Northwestern from the WorldCat database will constitute an important part of this enhancement project.\'94 (Garrett 77)}