{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red102\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 What is 
\i \cf2 in
\i0 \cf2  the TCP? Well, when active transcription was taking place, \'93users (especially those affiliated with partner libraries) were welcome to request works from EEBO that had not yet been keyed, and that their requests would go to the top of the queue\'94 (TCP \'93FAQ\'94). So \'97 the TCP contains whatever individual works happened to interest particular scholars.\
\
The TCP, unlike the ESTC and ECCO, intentionally avoids including multiple editions of a given work. This decision was a pragmatic one motivated by \'93limited funding\'94 and a sense of scarcity: \'93Simply put, for every book that we chose to convert, a different book does not get converted: duplication, even partial duplication, has its costs\'94 (TCP \'93FAQ\'94). Since the TCP never envisioned itself as a fully complete collection, the priority in textual selection \'93was always to capture as many different works and as great a variety of text as we could, usually focusing on the first edition of each work\'94(TCP \'93FAQ\'94). To a certain extent, this lack of duplication can be useful for text-mining: it places all texts on an equal playing field, rather than double-dipping on some works. However, they \'93have keyed additional editions where there is sufficient justification for doing so, and a user has made a case for it,\'94 so the corpus cannot be assumed to contain 
\i \cf2 no
\i0 \cf2  duplicated works (TCP \'93FAQ\'94).\cf3 \
\
\cf2 \'93Selection of works to transcribe for EEBO Phase 1 was initially based on named authors mentioned in the New Cambridge Bibliography of English Literature.  Though this tended to bias selection a bit toward canonical, or at least attributed, works, anonymous works may also have been selected at this stage if their titles appeared in the bibliography. The New Cambridge Bibliography of English Literature was chosen as a guideline because it included foundational works as well as less canonical titles related to a wide variety of fields, not just literary studies. In any case, this initial reliance on the New Cambridge soon gave way to a series of deliberate attempts to cast a wider net, for example by selecting works exemplifying a particular theme (food, drugs, piracy, witchcraft), or fitting a particular format (broadsides, pamphlets, etc.)  The intention was to supplement methodical selection with more or less random selection based on arbitrary criteria in order to expand the generic diversity of the corpus. Requests for particular works by faculty at partner institutions were also taken into consideration and, if feasible, placed at the head of the queue. A user willing and able to make a case for a given work almost always prevailed over other considerations.\'94 (TCP \'93EEBO\'94)\cf3 \
\
\'93Discussion then began on how to further develop the TCP project and insure that we can create 25,000 texts. In order to do this, the Board felt that it needed more information about the complete number of texts possible to include in the corpus, a dollar amount per title required to complete the project, a report on the total number of institutions, and the gap between EEBO subscribers and EEBO-TCP partners. Shawn Martin will work with Mary Sauer-Games to gather this information and report back to the Board. Some members thought that EEBO-TCP should go back to already existing partners and ask for a second round of funds to complete the project. In order to do this, Board members felt EEBO-TCP should look very carefully at what titles it is selecting and come up with summaries of the number of desirable titles to convert and initiate a strategy that could persuade libraries that it would be worth another years commitment to complete, for example, all of the Thomason tracts, or all of a particular genre or canonical category.\'94 (TCP Executive Board, \'93Meeting Minutes 2005-10-20.\'94)\
\
\'93Shawn Martin then discussed the selection process for all of the TCP projects. Though there are commonalities between them, selection runs differently for all 3 projects and each project runs fairly independently. Therefore, it becomes a question of how much should TCP coordinate collection between the three projects and how should TCP manage duplication. Scholars prefer that TCP duplicate titles between EEBO, Evans, and ECCO; librarians prefer to avoid duplication. The Board felt that it should receive a report of all duplicated materials, that TCP create an oversight group of librarians to coordinate the three projects, and where feasible TCP should try to minimize duplication.\'94 (TCP Executive Board, \'93Meeting Minutes 2005-10-20.\'94)}