{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Exploratory studies, poorly funded and inadequate though they were, began in the next decade, but not until 1975 did the American Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies take the initiative in North America, which was swiftly followed and far surpassed by the interest of the British Library, that has led to the present Eighteenth-Century Short-Title Catalogue Project.\'94 (Korshin 209)\cf0 \
\cf2 \
"The British Library Project maintains a number of manual files based on the works they have catalogued (by mid October 1978, the team had cataogued mor ethan 110,00 items, with a total of 75,000 entries; the difference represents multiple copies), and one can see from this account how usedul the completed work will be to the scholarly and library world. Indeed, as scholars who visit the Project at the British Library or who have been in touch with Alston and Jannetta by letter have already found, even the incomplete British Library file is tremendously helpful to the researcher.\'94 (210)\
\
\'93The Project staff found that many eighteenth-century books in hundreds of libraries around the world have never been / catalogued at all, or are described in a group heading,\'94 especially for single-sheet items (Korshin 210-211). \'93Panizzis \'91Rules' lead to confusing entries and filing for anonymous entries or for items with corporate authorship. For these, and many other related reasons, Alston and Jannetta decided to write their own cataloguing rules, allowing their entries eventually to be converted into machine-readable form, but differing slightly from the standards for machine-readable cataloguing devised in this country (Library of Congress MARC) and in the United Kingdom (UK MARC). Modern machine-readable cataloguing has been devised to deal with cataloguing new books and serials; the ESTC's cataloguing rules have been devised in such a way that a scholar anywhere in the world can tell, from the ESTC entry, whether the copy of the book inhis or her library is the same or different from the one listed in ESTC.\'94 (Korshin 211)\
\
\'93By 1984, it is expected that a joint Anglo-American interim publication of the ESTC file to that point will be published in computer-output microform (COM).\'94 (212)\cf0 \
}