{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \'93Since the advent of academic queer theory in the early 1990s, the proliferation of publications addressing queer reading possibilities in Gothic fiction suggest that Queer Studies and Gothic Studies may be considered complementary fields of inquiry.\'94 (46)\
\'93But thinking about the queer theorisation of the Gothic only in terms of what queer theory has done for Gothic Studies might be a limiting way of approaching the subject. As Michael O\'92Rourke and David Collings have observed, 
\b it is not simply the case that the Gothic is always already queer; queer theory is also always already Gothic
\b0 . \'85 It is sometimes all too easy to view theory as illuminating literary texts and, in this essay, I will propose that the Gothic has had an equal, if note more important, in enabling the production of queer critical narratives.\'94 (46)\
\'93Judith Halberstam, for instance, now more well-known for her work on transgender politics, published her first book on Gothic horror fiction. George Haggerty publishes on both the Gothic and the history of sexuality, bringing these concerns together in Queer Gothic. Eve Kosofsky Sedgqick, sometimes called \'91the queen of queer theory\'92, also began her scholarly career in the Gothic.\'94 (47)\
\'93Haggerty goes so far as to argue that the Gothic \'91offers a historical model of queer theory and politics: transgressive, sexually coded and resistant to dominant ideology.\'92\'94 (47)\

\b \'93In these textual worlds of excess and danger we find the institutions of family and marriage shaken, the representation of extreme states of being, encounters with outcast monsters, not to mention conventional preoccupations with forbidden knowledge, paranoia, madness, secrecy, and guilt.\'94 (47)
\b0 \
\'93What strikes me in the relationship between queer theory and Gothic fiction is precisely the uncannily personal sense of identification with the Gothic that often underscores work on the subject. Sigmund Freud suggested that the uncanny is \'91something which is secretly familiar\'85 which has undergone repression and then returned from it.\'92 When I say that queer scholarship\'92s encounter with the Gothic is \'91uncanny\'92, I mean that it appears to be based on a sense of a \'91secret encounter\'92 in which the texts bring to light something which ought to be repressed, something that feels particularly pertinent to people whose identities, bodies, and desires have been culturally designated \'91queer\'92.\'94 (48)\
A truly lengthy survey of queer work enabled by the Gothic!\
\'93Although the Italian and Udolpho are not fully-fledged lesbian Gothics, they can be placed in a tradition of Female Gothic texts that utilise the uncanny to speak about the construction of desire between women. I recognise something in these novels which impels me to speak about lesbianism. \'85 All these texts deploy the motif of recognition between women to uncanny effect, indicating awareness that although lesbianism has been constructed under heteropatriarchy as something that must be repressed at all costs, the possibility of desire between women stubbornly returns to haunt the cultural centre. In this respect, the Female Gothic has also enabled lesbian theorists, such as Palmer and Castle, to produce subversive critical narratives which reclaim the Female Gothic for lesbian and queer theory.\'94 (54)\
\'93Instead of viewing queer theory as liberating repressed sexual meaning in the Gothic, is is interesting to view the Gothic as enabling queer scholarship, helping theorists to articulate queer reading practices and discuss the construction of sexual nonconformity.\'94 (54)\
\'93Underscoring much queer-Gothic scholarship, including this essay, is a feeling that people constructed as \'91queer\'92 have a special relationship with the uncanny and, therefore, with the Gothic. The impression that repressed queer meaning has come to light produces the uncanny sense of recognition in the feeling that Gothic texts are speaking about \'91us\'92. But perhaps what is demonstrated in the Gothic is the extent to / which the rhetorical construction of sex and gender nonconformity has been mediated through the uncanny, in which case, what we really recognise is our own construction as uncanny beings, bodies of knowledge that ought to be repressed.\'94 (54-55)\
\'93I began to feel, in other words, distinctly \'91uncanny\'92. At the time, I made no connections between my own experiences and my avid consumption of Gothic and horror novels. Queer theory has brought me full circle, enabling me to recognise that what I recognise in the Gothic is the Gothic\'92s capacity to convey an uncanny sense of queer awareness.\'94 (55)}