{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Guillory\'92s 
\i Cultural Capital
\i0  proposes that 1990s critique of literary canons misunderstood their own value when they rely on a rhetoric of \'93representation.\'94 By proceeding as if representation on syllabi was equivalent to political representation \'97 and, indeed, by assuming that works by marginalized authors \'93represent\'94 the marginalized groups to which the authors belong, such that \'93representation\'94 is determined solely by an author\'92s biography rather than the content of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5275BF1D-407A-4884-AB5B-F34B052B6E3E"}}{\fldrslt work}} \'97 Guillory posits that we make two mistakes.\
\
** Bring in Underwood on misrecognizing the fear of big data\
Underwood rejects the easy/expected critique of technological hierarchies reinforcing other hierarchies: \'93This kind of fearmongering is the flip side of technophilic hype; both are wildly exaggerated. Managing a whole digital library, like HathiTrust, is admittedly a big task. But specific research questions usually engage a small part of the library. Most of the analysis in this book can be done on a desktop, although some of the programs might take an afternoon to run. Nothing discussed here required computing power that is available only at a few institutions.\'94 (Underwood 157)\
\
universities are interested in 'representation in the canon' because representation in politics (its proper place) is seen to have failed -- as liberal pluralism is purged from society its last bastions adopt its defensive positions rigidly and with high stakes (Guillory 5)\
\'93...it must also be borne in mind that the archives preserve (and bury) hundreds and thousands of writers, of various social origins and identities. The question for us, in reconsidering the rhetoric of canon revision, is why any particular noncanonical author discovered by a research program has to be presented as excluded from the canon.\'94 (Guillory 16)\
\'93in construing the process of canon formation as an exclusionary process essentially the same as the exclusion of socially defined minorities from power, the strategy of opening the canon aims to reconstruct it as a true image (a true representation) of social diversity. In so specifying 'representation' as the political effect of the canon, the liberal pluralist critique fails to consider what other effects, even political effects, the canon may have at its institutional site.\'94 (Guillory 8)\
\'93the construction of a syllabus begins with selection; it does not begin with a \'91process of elimination.\'92 What is excluded from the syllabus is not excluded in the 
\i same way
\i0  that an individual is excluded or marginalized as the member of a social minority, socially disenfranchised.\'94 (Guillory 33)\
\'93The reason more women authors, for example, are not represented in older literatures is not primarily that their works were routinely excluded... as a consequence of their social identity as women. The historical reason is that, with few exceptions before the eighteenth century, women were routinely excluded from 
\i access to literacy
\i0 , or were proscribed from composition or publication in the genres considered to be serious rather than ephemeral.\'94 (Guillory 15)\
\
\'93When canons were at issue, the struggle to define a single representative list was motivated by the limitations of space that force anthologies and syllabi to distill the past down to a single // set of texts. In such a confined space, the games critics play are genuinely zero-sum in character: new canons can come into being only by displacing old ones. \'85 Once researchers have created digital collections of several thousand titles, it becomes unnecessary to decide on a single representation of the past, since digital collections are easy to subdivide and rebalance. A collection of this sort is analogous to a library, not to a syllabus or anthology: it doesn\'92t replace one version of the past with another but provides an enlarged repertoire of options. Instead of arguing about samples as if they were competing canons, we can adopt a relational mode of reasoning about literary history, akin to the methods of social science.\'94 (Underwood 176-7)\
\
\'94Of course, it would be a lot of work for researchers to construct new samples completely from scratch for every project. So, in practice, digital libraries provide an important resource, allowing researchers to construct different samples by subdividing a larger collection. In pursuing work of this kind, we don\'92t necessarily have to decide whether libraries are correctly balanced. We can rebalance our samples as needed.\'94 (Underwood 178)}