{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf760
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The English Short Title Catalog (ESTC) has records on 51,965 works printed in England during this decade. The ESTC has already provided me with their core bibliographical records of the authors, titles, and imprints for these works. Research by Leo Lahti et al., examining similar basic bibliographic information for 50,766 works categorized as history in the ESTC, has demonstrated some fruitful techniques for research at this scale, which I will use to look for influential authors and major groupings of texts. I expect to see Ann Racliffe as an increasingly popular author, reflected in multiple reprints of her works, with the \'91school of Radcliffe\'92 visible in the titles of works following her success. I will also look in more detail at some subsets of these works. Taking cues from Steven Zwicker, I will use random sampling to extract a small enough list that I can research the works\'92 publication history and content. Through these general descriptive efforts, I will assemble a frame of reference for the relative popularity of generic forms within the mediascape. As I engage with the content of works being published, I also hope to get a sense of the extent to which works appear to be politicized, and how openly they carry their political agendas.}