{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgray\c100000;
}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 My goal is to do something about the problem of literary canons. How can we cope with the sheer quantity of literature that exists? What is our goal, when we approach literature?\
How do we select a small number of texts, to be \'93important\'94 or \'93representative\'94, from a larger body?\
How do we make sense of intergeneric connections? What is a genre? Why do we have them? What are they for?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
do literary fads emerge in plays, poems, and prose simultaneously, or move through them sequentially? How different are the writers and audiences for each medium? I also anticipate finding new insight into the forms and popularity of political writing in the period: how much of the work being consumed is presented with explicit political aims? What mediums are most-used for different political positions? In a somewhat separate line of inquiry, I will explore in-depth the works of the individuals authors under consideration: how do they use each of the generic mediums available to them? How do they adapt their ideas to each form, and how do they conceive of each audience? \cb4 \
\cb3 Both the macro and the micro views will merge in the question: are my key writers \'91representative\'92 of the popular written discourse in which they participate? What does it mean for a text to be \'91representative,\'92 and how should we find and understand outliers? }