{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I wish to produce a comprehensive account of the strategies of feeling employed by writers and readers in England in the face of the French apocalypse. I care about disreputable texts. I think I can do this by paying attention to works\'92 timeliness with exhaustive detail of particularity. As one way to apply the lessons learned from 18thC readings, I want to enact a reparative digital humanities.\
My interest in the gothic and the supernatural is just subsumed within a larger conversation about strategies of feeling. As Clery, Miles, and Gamer have articulated, the gothic/supernatural are one strategy in conversation/competition with other strategies, all dealing in different ways with the problem of feeling.\
My reading has allowed me to sample a wide range of takes on how to feel exactly the right amount of feelings and for the right reasons. There\'92s a simplistic history, from sentimental to political and gothic to romantic.\
In its broadest strokes, this narrative is probably mostly true. But I want to make it way more complicated by engaging with the particularity of timeliness. For example, Burke\'92s Reflections have an interesting history! And the 1797 Elegiac Sonnets are also interesting.\
My interest in exhaustive particularity responds to the calls of, for example, David Brewer and William St Clair. It is grounde in bibliographical and book history approaches to textual study.\
My interest in exhaustive particularity also presents my largest methodological challenge. I both want to (1) engage thoughtfully and humanistically with my premises, and (2) leave all the computational stuff to the side to just *do the work*.\
(1a) I am excited about the ways that distant reading allows the consideration of more works, and thus an expansion of the works under discussion.  I\'92ll probably make a database trying to combine all the stuff I have, and definitely make a lot of artisanal hand-crafted \'93small data.\
(1b) I am also excited about the recursive reflective process of modelling: the usefulness of making one\'92s models and their parameters explicit and testing multiple models; the need to actually meaningfully *account for* the full variety of what one is working with, to grapple with and reconcile outliers.\'94\
(2) What really matters me is the (affective?) stance of reparative reading. Sedgwick and Felski identify what seems to be an important gap that I want to fill.\
(2) This is why I have picked the questions I have picked, and why it is important to me to examine disreputable texts and disreputable ways of reading canonical texts. Disreputable reading is usually dismissed on the basis of its alterity, but this alterity can be powerfully valuable.\
My three ideas of feeling, timeliness, and reparative reading combine in the idea that older texts reprinted in the 1790s would be read differently (reparatively) compared to how their strategies of feeling would have been read at other times. For example, I want to know why Goldsmith was reprinted so much.\
These are my priorities and interests. It should be fun! And informative?}