{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reading Feeling\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 My readings have traced the development, in the latter half of the eighteenth century, of a complex negotiation regarding the role of feeling in the public sphere and in literature. Competing definitions of the effects of sympathy had high-stakes political and ethical implications: does universal sympathy unite all people into a moral society of citizens, or do emotional interpretations of events blind people to rational justice? When literature excites a strong emotional response, is this a healthy form of exercise for its audience\'92s moral feeling, or a weakening distraction from real moral action? These questions, in translated form, continue to shape my own questions about literature as a field: what should one read, and how should one read it, if one wishes to honor the importance of feeling without being misled by emotional manipulation?\
Eve Sedgwick and, more recently, Rita Felski, among many others, have been having similar conversations about the role of emotional engagement and identification in literary scholarship. Felski: \'93what will save us from perdition, what will keep us from committing all those sins we\'92ve been warned against since we were bright-eyed neophytes: naive reading, sentimental effusion, impressionistic judgment, fuzzy-headed amateurism, and mere \'93chatter about Shelley\'94?\'94\
Sedgwick introduces the idea of \'93reparative reading\'94 as an alternative to more-traditional forms of paranoid reading, which particularly held sway in the 1990s. However, just as eighteenth-century writers found it easier to [criticize others] than to articulate a satisfying alternative, Sedgwick produces a much more detailed description of reparative reading than of its alternative. She nonethless points to a guiding motivation of reparative reading, from which one can begin: \'93The desire of a reparative impulse... is additive and accretive. Its fear, a realistic one, is that the culture surrounding it is inadequate or inimical to its nurture; it wants to assemble and confer plenitude to an object that will then have resources to offer to an inchoate self.\'94 And she suggests an outcome of reparative literary scholarship, against which one can compare one\'92s findings: \'93What we can best learn from such practices are, perhaps, the many ways selves and communities succeed in extracting sustenance from the objects of a culture - even of a culture whose avowed desire has often been not to sustain them.\'94\
Sedgwick articulates some tentative groundwork which Felski\'92s monograph promises a more resounding answer two. 
\i The Limits of Critique
\i0 , however, is centrally focused, as per its title, on current practices of critique and the limits of those practices. The conclusion gestures towards \'93neophenomenology,\'94 \'93a sustained attention to the sheer range and complexity of aesthetic experiences, including moments of recognition, enchantment, shock, and knowledge.\'94 Felski has begun this work by establishing a greater richness for the vocabulary of \'93identifying\'94 with characters. Determining whether a character is \'93relatable\'94 enough to \'93identify with\'94 is often a key concern for undergraduate readers and for 18thC thinkers: Felski distinguishes literary itentification into at least three types, \'93structural or formal alignment, moral allegiance, and emotional empathy,\'94 which can be useful for untangling 18thC sentimental literature.\
The language of these alternative modes of reading discuss dissatisfaction of the \'93surface vs depth\'94 metaphors of paranoid or critical reading practices, in which the critic in in a priviledged position to expose the hidden inner workings of a text. Instead they use metaphors of closeness, and particularly of emotional rather than physical closeness, presenting reading as an intimate collaborative encounter with a text. Felski describes this as \'93a judicious decrease rather than an increase of distance -- a willingness to acknowledge and more fully engage our attachments,\'94 in which being interested in a work would operate on the terms of \'93interest\'94 current in the 18thC: [define 18thC interest.] Felski insists that this closeness and interest would enable \'93serious thinking.\'94}