{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Timeliness\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The naive version of timeliness is to seek a historical arc. These do somewhat exist. The \'93major\'94 works across the period are characterized by sentimental novels before the 1780s, to political philosophy and gothic novels during the 80s and 90s, to romantic poetry at the turn of the 19
\fs22 \super th
\fs32 \nosupersub  century. My interest in the gothic and the supernatural is thus subsumed within a larger conversation about the representation of feeling. As Clery, Miles, and Gamer have explored in different ways, gothic and supernatural stories encompass a subset of literary strategies to understand and use feeling, which exist in conversation and competition with other strategies. Each work must strike its own balance between exciting the feelings of its readers, and moderating them. The simplest narrative tracing this development begins with a naive emotional philosophy of benevolence in sentimental novels, which gets exposed as flawed by the rationalist political philosophy of the 80s and 90s and must grapple with its failures in the gothic literature of that period, and which forms a new balance though elevation and retrospection in romantic literature.\
In its broadest strokes, this narrative is probably mostly true, and can certainly be useful. Nonetheless, I wish to complicate it by seeking to reconcile \'93major\'94 works with their \'93minor\'94 peers, and by foregrounding what I refer to as the \'93timeliness\'94 of a work. My interest in noncanonical works stems from a desire to recognize the real variety of responses expressed throughout the period in question. Even when one literary affective mode is at its peak popularity, other opinions are being expressed and other tools are being employed. [Just because an idea doesn\'92t \'93win\'94 its year doesn\'92t make it uninteresting; rather, the opposite.] Moreover, individual authors evolve in opinion over time, and even individuals works change in meaning over time, hence my interest in timeliness.\

\i [Definition of timeliness:
\i0  a way to resist the idea of singularity of a text; texts have a multiplicity of meanings as they are printed, reprinted, revised, and recontextualized
\i .]
\i0  So, for example, I am interested in Burke\'92s Reflections as a text which is outcompeted by Williams when it is first published, and attracts a flood of negative responses, but which slowly outcompetes the others and becomes more successful over time as it gains credit for its prescience. And the 1797 Elegiac Sonnets are also interesting.\
My interest in timeliness is not unprecedented. William St. Clair\'92s exhaustive bibliographical study of book prices and David Brewer\'92s reflection on the recent quantitative turn in literary studies both call attention to the limits of what St. Clair calls the \'93parade of authors\'94 and \'93parliament of texts\'94 models of literary history, and the need to account for what Brewer terms the \'93footprint\'94 left by the ongoing resonance of texts beyond their moment of initial publication. Both of these studies, and others like them, [enrich our understanding of timeliness], [particularly as expressed in the marketing and sale of texts to readers]. [I am interested in these things, but more interested in the interplay between reading practices, audiences, and literary genres.] Felski suggests that Wai Chee Dimock\'92s attentiveness to the \'93busy afterlife of the literary artifact\'94 which \'93refutes our efforts to box it into a moment of origin\'94 has produced a valuable alternative to critique. Dimock\'92s concept of \'93resonance,\'94 like Brewer\'92s of a \'93footprint,\'94 [gets at the thing that I want to get at also]  \
My three ideas of feeling and timeliness reading combine in the idea that older texts reprinted in the 1790s would be read differently (reparatively) compared to how their strategies of feeling would have been read at other times. For example, I want to know why Goldsmith was reprinted so much. [I look at 18thC texts as sources that might have expertise to offer, or important pleasures to confer]\
}