{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Digital Humanities\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Timeliness and feeling, as investigated through bibliographical research and reparative reading, thus chart a right network of interrelated concepts. Reparative reading requires an openess to the multiplicity of meaning which works may accrue as they are printed, reprinted, revised, and adapated in response to the pressures of timeliness. Precise bibliographical research can recapture and contextualize the complex and variable strategies of feeling that competed throughout the period. Not yet integrated into this set of priorities and methodological frameworks is the element of my project which often requires the most justification: my use of quantitative and computational methodologies.\
\cb1 This is a conversation which has been taking place in different terms among digital humanities practitioners. eg Adam Hamond talks about the digital as a breach with the past so substantial that it renders the future unimaginable. Individual work is trying to figure out how to humanities-ize / humanize the digital. Except that Fischer-Starke\'92s book is totally uninterested in these questions.\
Willard McCarty\'92s chapter on interdisciplinary research strikes me as particularly fruitful. Willard McCarty says that \'93The range of possibilities in interdisciplinary research is from theft to assimilation\'94: the current state of \'93digital humanities\'94 research still involves a lot of theft, of computational methods but particularly of the aura of empirical objectivity which the sciences bring with them. This aura of objectivity, which is actively cultivated by many \'93digital humanities\'94 practitioners (especially Franco Moretti), is a strange illusion does not reflect how the sciences understand their own work. Because, as McCarty observes, \'93research in a discipline to which one is alien is difficult to see as good research, or even to see as research at all,\'94 [it is easy for computational humanities research to dazzle or to fizzle, but hard for it to usefully inform.\
I hope to integrate my computational and quantitative research into a fully humanities project by largely refusing to centre the technological elements of my methodology, either in terms of its practice or in terms of its theory. \cf2 \cb4 I completely reject the aura of empiricist objectivity which quantitative and computational methods attempt to surround themselves with. I embrace the messiness and intimacy of modelling. \cf2 \cb1 Trying to integrate attentiveness to textual detail and emotional openness will be good for \'93DH.\'94}