{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 My current thinking on my dissertation consists of a series of questions, the answers to which I expect to be interrelated. As I pose these questions, my central concern is the distinction drawn between popularity/timeliness/marginalization and seriousness/timelessness/legacy. I want to ask how works that are now considered serious and timeless have achieved their prominent positions, and examine \'93unserious\'94 or ephemeral works that reward further consideration.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Chapter one engages with a digital humanities problem, to ask how existing corpora of eighteenth century literature (mis)represent the 1790s, establishing a foundation of knowledge for the following chapters. Chapter two introduces the driving stakes of the dissertation: it asks what long-term impact literary celebrity has on an author\'92s legacy, particularly for male versus female authors. In keeping with my contention that literary works must be considered as still \'93active\'94 even after their original publication, my third chapter turns it attention to works originally written before the 1790s which nonetheless can be considered as important \'931790s literature\'94 due to prominent re-printing. My fourth chapter pursues a different tack to focus on another set of widely-read works that are often excluded from \'931790s literature\'94: chapbooks. My fifth chapter brings together these lines of thought, to ask what relationship \'93serious literature\'94 had to the \'93non-literary\'94, and especially to \'93sub-literary\'94 fiction, in the 1790s.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 With the possible exception of the first chapter (which, in its focus on archival gaps, also has its non-digital precursors), none of the questions asked above are inherently computational, or questions which have gone unasked previously. My goal is to continue existing scholarly work along these lines, contributing the computational approach which comes naturally to me, to synthesize or enrich non-computational approached.}