{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Taking up David Brewer\'92s challenge in \'93Counting, Resonance, and Form\'94 to account for the increased \'93footprint\'94 of some texts beyond the moment of their original publication, my third chapter turns it attention to works originally written before the 1790s which nonetheless can be considered important \'931790s literature\'94 due to prominent re-printing (or, in the case of plays, re-staging). The chapter\'92s first question is one of discovery: what works resurface in this decade? Its next question is one of close-reading and historical context: what makes them seem newly relevant? As in my first chapter, the \'93case study\'94 texts for this chapter will emerge from my broader research. I am particularly eager to investigate timely re-stagings of plays, given the heightened ephemerality and thus timeliness of theatrical productions compared to print; my first step is to assemble a precise timeline of what was staged during the period. For printed works, some initial exploration suggests that Shakespeare, Oliver Goldsmith, Daniel Defoe, Samuel Johnson, or Milton might be of interest. I will need to determine what distinction, if any, I might want to draw between \'93canonical\'94 authors like Shakespeare and Milton, whose posthumous prominence is predictable, and any shorter-lived targeted reprintings that I might discover. This chapter, then, is another way of engaging with the idea of \'93legacy,\'94 exploring the distinctions between \'93timelessness\'94 and \'93lasting timeliness.\'94}