{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 4. Synthesis \'96 You are now ready to pull the whole thesis together. \'96 Discuss the implications of your results. \'96 Draw strong conclusions backed up by your discussion. \'96 Check that they respond to the aim stated in your introduction.\
\
Structuring your discussion: \'95 The task of the discussion chapter is to enable you to reach your conclusions. Drawing up a tentative list of conclusions will help you identify an appropriate structure. \'95 Begin by writing down all the things you know now that you didn\'92t know when you started the project. Rearranging this list will give you the titles of the main sections of your discussion. Summary of Chapter 9: The Discussion or Interpretation
\f1 \uc0\u8195 
\f0  119 Checking the thesis structure: \'95 Before you start writing material in each of these sections, check your thesis structure by stringing together introductions and conclusions for all the chapters. \'95 Check that the tentatively structured thesis responds to the aim and scope you set yourself in your introductory chapter. Write with authority: \'95 Make sure that your exposition of new theory or ideas places your thesis within the context of the field you are working in. This will require that you not only draw on your own results, but that you view these against existing thinking as expounded in your background chapters. \'95 Acknowledge any limitations on your findings. Theoretical results may need validation before their suitability in practice is known, for example. Shortcomings or uncertainties should also be acknowledged. \'95 If the thesis involves a case study, check that you have dealt with the problem of generalizability, or issues of transference, for your findings to similar situations.}