{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red102\green102\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 The relocation of the debate from the canon to the corpus is not without grounds. As this dissertation will explore in depth, challenges to the technological accessibility of texts have created new hierarchies, and a new \'93great unread.\'94 \cf0 Each archive represents a unique set of choices in response to the same sets of questions: what to include, why, how; what to make accessible, why, how, to whom; what, in the end, makes a text matter, and what we are meant to 
\i do
\i0  with texts.\cf2  For example, the English Short Title Catalogue records \cf3 51,965\cf2  titles printed in England between 1789 and 1799. The corpus most commonly used for DH work on eighteenth century literature, ECCO-TCP, includes only \cf3 466\cf2  titles for that same time period. What are the other \cf3 51,499\cf2  titles, why are they accessible in the ways they are, and what does it mean for digital eighteenth century studies that they are not included? \cf3 Although the examination of corpora prompts similar hypotheses of exclusion as in longstanding conversations about canons, digital corpora do not simply replicate new canons. \cb4 [By the end of my dissertation, I will be able to state here what IS happening \'97 something structured by related logics of access and prestige, and related simplifications of historical complexity, and related 
\i institutional
\i0  replication of privileged texts.. But very importantly different, too, since we don\'92t 
\i read
\i0  corpora.]\cb1  \cf2 In a series of computational and non-computational research processes, I examine \cf3 eleven\cf2  corpora of eighteenth century texts to learn about four eighteenth century authors, and I examine four eighteenth century authors to learn about eighteenth century corpora. T\cf0 his dissertation\cf2 , therefore,\cf0  takes place within three scholarly conversations: the digital humanities, as an increasingly self-reflective set of practices; eighteenth century studies, and the challenges presented by the 1790s; and the frameworks of reparative reading within queer theory which seem to offer valuable resources for both. The remainder of this chapter will describe in more detail the relevant scholarship in all three fields, then discuss the overlaps between them which enable my work. Finally, this chapter conclude\cf2 s\cf0  with a description of the \cf2 major\cf0  \cf2 research\cf0  experiments which drive the dissertation as a whole, and providing a sketch of their development across the dissertation.}