{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 The item in my random draw is STC N38682, a 24p. ; 12\uc0\u8304  edition printed in 1797. It is not in ECCO; copies of the light-hose volunteer rules & regulations that 
\i are
\i0  in ECCO are as follows:\
T83862	1795	129p	12\uc0\u8304 \
T131622	1797	36p	18\'b0\
T130561	1797	273p	24\'b0\
T131623	1798 	240p	24\'b0\
These are, for the most part, way way longer than the one the ESTC pointed me to and therefore unhelpful comparisons! So I turned my attention to similar works for different organizations.\
Searching the National Archives for \'93Light-Horse Volunteers of London and Westminster\'94 turns up a lot of related records, including all their minutes, but none of these have been digitized (alas).\
Better comparisons are the 16p. ; 8\'b0 rules for the St. James\'92 volunteers, and the 12p 8\'b0 rules for the second Free and Easy Johns society. \
\
At first I thought the Free and Easy Johns might be a parody document (since they stipulate that none of the money in the first year will be spent on anything but lock-boxes) but on closer look it appears to be real; it then appears to be some kind of cross between health insurance and a ponzi scheme. The idea seems to be that people will pay in membership rates, and be entitled to payouts if they become ill or disabled and can\'92t work, plus death benefits for their survivors. Is part of the idea that the group can invest these funds, and the profits from investment accrue to their mutual benefit\'85?}