{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl520\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The first story these ten texts can tell is the story of what it is easy to study, and what is hard to study. Oliver Goldsmith\'92s 
\i Vicar of Wakefield
\i0  is readily available in print in scholarly and readerly editions, and digitally as a ebook or even a audiobook, in addition to the ECCO facsimile which I consulted. In contrast, 
\i Consolation for the scorbutic, scrofulous, leprous, &c
\i0  survives in a single physical copy in Gottingen, Germany, where it has likely survived by virtue of being \'93Bound with the 'Gentleman's Magazine', vol. 63, part 2, 1793\'94 (ESTC). Even to locate reasonable proxies for 
\i Consolation for the scorbutic
\i0 , I found myself leaving ECCO behind for the Bodleian Library\'92s partly-digitized John Johnson Collection, which held similar advertisements for patent medicines. What this exploration has revealed is that there are two distinct paths to survival, for a historic text to remain available for study: an institution, or an eccentric collector (whose personal collection is eventually adopted by an institution). Here, by \'93survival\'94 I mean \'93the continued existence as a physical object\'94. Universities, libraries, and archives are the typical institutions we might turn to as preservers of texts, but other institutions have also played a role. The only copy of William Jones\'92 
\i A letter to three converted Jews
\i0  is held by Durham Cathedral. The only copy of 
\i The principles of modern reformers exposed
\i0 , a satirical radical broadsheet, is held at the London National Archives, where it is preserved alongside the correspondence of the Home Office-- tantalizingly suggestive of exactly the government surveillance which the broadsheet itself complains of.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl520\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 One of the major findings of this research methodology is a reminder that digital records are based on a relentless materiality. The method itself, in some ways, boils down to predicting the location of some barriers to research, and then smashing my face directly against those barriers in order to characterize their location, shape, and solidity. The hunt for the more-neglected titles hit very similar barriers. The Hayward advertisement has only one recorded copy, in Germany; elation when looking up the shelfmark reveals that it is bound with the Gentleman\'92s Magazine and I can find a HathiTrust scan of that exact volume; growing dread as a detailed examination of the 800-page facsimile makes it clear that the advertisement did not normally appear within the magazine but was bound with it separately by an idiosyncratic German person; resignation as I use Google Translate to compose an apologetic message in German for the Niedersachsische Staats und Universitatsbibliothek, where someone will have to go dig out the book and personally inspect it for the inclusion. Or, for the East India accounts \'97 growing elation as I realise that one of the holding libraries is UCLA, where material conditions are in my favour, since I have a friend studying there; hopes that are dashed by the absolute bar on special collections access during COVID-19.}