{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 In 1980, the ESTC began to go online. \cf0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://21D2F568-92F3-4F78-A8FD-F40D950DBB20"}}{\fldrslt \'93One implication of the publication history of short-title catalogues is that they have been deemed functional and valuable even before they were complete. (That estimation is crucial, for their full completion is for all practical purposes impossible.) Judging that even a preliminary form of the records was useful to scholars, the planners of ESTC determined to conduct its development \'91in full public view\'92 and to make the incomplete file available \'91warts and all\'92}} (in the words of Henry Snyder and Michael Crump, responding to criticism by Peter Blayney)\'94 (Vander Meulen 270). Accordingly, the in-progress database \'93was soon available online, from 1980 via the British Library BLAISE [British LibraryAutomated Information SErvice] system and from 1981 in the US Research Libraries Group RLIN [Research Libraries Information Network] system\'94 (Norman). Each of these databases was worked on locally by researchers, and then updated and reconciled with each other weekly.\cf2 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 To supplement these databases, accessible almost exclusively to librarians with specialized training in operating them and primarily used by the scholars compiling the file, the ESTC intended to publish editions at particular milestones of completeness, intended for the use of non-librarian scholars. Their \'93first step, a fiche catalogue of [the British Library\'92s] holdings, together with indexes, generated by the computer\'94 (Crump 105) was published in a microform \'93snapshot\'94 in 1983, but other milestones did not occur according to schedule. The \'93joint Anglo-American interim publication of the ESTC file \'94 (Korshin 212) which was expected to follow on microform in 1984 (Korshin 212) did not appear. Alston attributed the delays partly to the immensity of the task, and partly to the impact of short-term cost-cutting decisions, like the reduction of early-stage proofreading or of in-person examination of books, which dramatically increased the labour of verifying the resulting database record. Although he consistently warned \'93how easily strategic decisions based exclusively on cost usually lead to greater, not less, eventual costs\'94 (Alston), the ESTC each year seemed to be facing a new budget struggle, and important maintenance labour was several times deferred. This created something like a paradox for the ESTC: funding bodies wanted to commit less money to a project which was behind schedule, but the project would remain behind schedule unless it was funded to complete the work required. \
Nonetheless, work continued, and in 1985, the online databases in RLIN and BLAISE were upgraded to allow dynamic updates to a single shared file (Crump 106), which for the first time allowed continuous access to a shared record, rather than the constant exchange and messy merging of individual partially-overlapping records. \'93Until the file was dynamically available online on RLIN in 1985 batch processing was a weekly nightmare\'94 (Alston). At this time, it was hoped that the new RLIN file would \'93result in a more complete and coherent \'91first edition\'92 of ESTC\'94 to be published in 1989 (Crump 106), though this deadline, too, was not met. In the mean time \'93the ESTC file [was] available to scholars on both BLAISE-LINE and on RLIN.\'94 (Crump 106). To facilitate its use, the ESTC distributed \'93[a] simplified manual for searching the file on-line\'94 (Crump 106). Crump took the opportunity of the update to rhapsodize on the database\'92s potential usefulness for other scholars: \'93No longer is the scholar limited in access to the data by the fixity of the printed page\'94 (106). This valuable resource was not without cost. Although the manual on how to formulate search queries was free, use of the ESTC itself was notably not. Institutions or individuals paid to subscribe to the ESTC itself, paid per query for searches to be run, paid per minute for being connected to the database, and often paid for access to the computers they must use in their own libraries. Tabor says \'93the ongoing expense of consulting ESTC was the cyber-equivalent of the hefty up-front payment needed to acquire its printed predecessors, STC and Wing\'94 (367).\
\'93In 1987, with the agreement of the Bibliographical Society and the Modern Language Association of America, the International Committee approved the extension of the database to cover the period from the beginning of printing in the British Isles (ca. 1472) to 1700. The file changed its name to the 'English Short Title Catalogue', thereby keeping its well-known acronym.\cf2 \'94\cf0 (Norman)}