{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\qc

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 CHAPTER XIII.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\qr
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.gutenberg.org/files/22002/22002-h/22002-h.htm#toc"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Top}}
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj
\cf2 Notwithstanding the seeming readiness with which Miss Milner had resigned all farther acquaintance with Lord Frederick, during the short ride home she appeared to have lost great part of her wonted spirits; she was thoughtful, and once sighed heavily. Dorriforth began to fear that she had not only made a sacrifice of her affections, but of her veracity; yet, why she had done so, he could not comprehend.\
As the carriage moved slowly through a lane between Elmwood Castle and her own house, on casting her eyes out of the window, Miss Milner's countenance was brightened in an instant, and that instant Lord Frederick, on horse-back, was at the coach door, and the coachman stopped.\
"Oh, Miss Milner," cried he, (with a voice and manner that could give little suspicion of the truth of what he said) "I am overjoyed at the happiness of seeing you, even though it is but an accidental meeting."\
She was evidently glad to see\'a0
\i him
\i0 ; but the earnestness with which he spoke, put her upon her guard not to express the like, and she said, in a cool constrained manner, she "Was glad to see his Lordship."\
The reserve with which she spoke, gave Lord Frederick immediate suspicion who was in the coach with her, and turning his head quickly, he met the stern eye of Dorriforth;\'a0upon which, without the smallest salutation, he turned from him again abruptly and rudely. Miss Milner was confused, and Miss Woodley in torture, at this palpable affront, to which Dorriforth alone appeared indifferent.\
"Go on," said Miss Milner to the footman, "desire the coachman to drive on."\
"No," cried Lord Frederick, "not till you have told me when I shall see you again."\
"I will write you word, my Lord," replied she, something alarmed. "You shall have a letter immediately after I get home."\
As if he guessed what its contents were to be, he cried out with warmth, "Take care, then, Madam, how you treat me in that letter\'97and you, Mr. Dorriforth," turning to him, "do you take care what it contains; for if it is dictated by you, to you I shall send the answer."\
Dorriforth, without making any reply, or casting a look at him, put his head out of the window on the opposite side, and called, in a very angry tone, to the coachman, "How dare you not drive on, when your Lady orders you?"\

\b The sound of Dorriforth's voice in anger, was to the servants so unusual, that it acted like electricity upon the man, and he drove on at the instant with such rapidity, that Lord Frederick was in a moment left many yards behind.
\b0  As soon, however, as he recovered from the surprise into which this sudden command had thrown him, he rode with speed after the carriage, and followed it, till it arrived at the door of Miss Milner's house; there, giving himself up to the rage of love, or to rage against Dorriforth for the contempt he had shewn to him, he leaped from his horse when Miss Milner stepped from her carriage, and seizing her hand, entreated her "Not to desert him, in compliance with the injunctions of monkish hypocrisy."\
Dorriforth heard this, standing silently by, with a manly scorn upon his countenance.\

\b Miss Milner struggled to loose her hand, saying, "Excuse me from replying to you now, my Lord."\
In return, he lifted her hand eagerly to his lips, and began to devour it with kisses; when Dorriforth, with an instantaneous impulse, rushed forward, and struck him a violent blow in the face.
\b0  Under the force of this assault, and the astonishment it excited, Lord Frederick staggered, and letting fall the hand of Miss Milner, her guardian immediately laid hold of it, and led her into the house.\
She was terrified beyond description; and with extreme difficulty Mr. Dorriforth conveyed her to her own chamber, without taking her in his arms. When, by the assistance of her maid, he had placed her upon a sofa\'97covered with shame and confusion for what he had done, he fell upon his knees before her, and earnestly "Entreated her forgiveness for the indelicacy he had been guilty of in her presence." And that he had alarmed her, and had forgot the respect which he thought sacredly her due, seemed the only circumstance which then dwelt upon his thoughts.\
She felt the indecorum of the posture he had condescended to take, and was shocked. To see her guardian at her feet, struck her with a sense of impropriety, as if she had seen a parent there. All agitation and emotion, she implored him to rise, and, 
\b with a thousand protestations, declared, "That she thought the rashness of the action was the highest proof of his regard for her."
\b0 \
Miss Woodley now entered; her care being ever employed upon the unfortunate, Lord Frederick had been the object of it: she had waited by his side, and, with every good purpose, had preached patience to him, while he was smarting under the pain, but more under the shame, of his chastisement. 
\b At first, his fury threatened a retort upon the servants around him (and who refused his entrance into the house) of the punishment he had received. But, in the certainty of an\'a0
\i amende honorable
\i0 , which must hereafter be made, he overcame the many temptations which the moment offered, and re-mounting his horse rode away from the scene of his disgrace
\b0 .\
No sooner had Miss Woodley entered the room, and Dorriforth had resigned to her the care of his ward, than he flew to the spot where he had left Lord Frederick, negligent of what might be the event if he still remained there. After enquiring, and being told that he was gone, Dorriforth\'a0returned to his own apartment; and with a bosom torn by more excruciating sensations than those which he had given to his adversary.\
The reflection that struck him first with remorse, as he shut the door upon himself, was:\'97
\b "I have departed from my character\'97from the sacred character, and the dignity of my profession and sentiments\'97I have departed from myself. I am no longer the philosopher, but the ruffian
\b0 \'97I have treated with an unpardonable insult a young nobleman, whose only offence was love, and a fond desire to insinuate himself into the favour of his mistress. 
\b I must atone for this outrage in whatever manner he may choose; and the law of honour and of justice (though in this one instance contrary to the law of religion) enjoins, that if he demands my life in satisfaction for his wounded feelings, it is his due. Alas! that I could have laid it down this morning, unsullied with a cause for which it will make but inadequate atonement.
\b0 "\
His next reproach was\'97"I have offended and filled with horror, a beautiful young woman, whom it was my duty to have protected from those brutal manners, to which I myself have exposed her."\
Again\'97"I have drawn upon myself the just upbraidings of my faithful preceptor and friend; of the man in whose judgment it was my delight to be approved\'97above all, I have drawn upon myself the stings of my conscience."\
"Where shall I pass this sleepless night?" cried he, walking repeatedly across his chamber; "Can I go to the ladies? I am unworthy of their society. Shall I go and repose my disturbed mind on Sandford? I am ashamed to tell him the cause of my uneasiness. Shall I go to Lord Frederick, and humbling myself before him, beg his forgiveness? He would spurn me for a coward. No"\'97\'97(and he lifted up his eyes to Heaven) "Thou all great, all wise and omnipotent Being, Thou whom I have most offended, it is to Thee alone that I have recourse in this hour of tribulation, and from Thee alone I solicit comfort. And the confidence in which I now address myself to Thee, encouraged by that long intercourse which religion has effected, repays me amply\'a0in this one moment, for the many years of my past life devoted with my best, though imperfect, efforts to thy service."\
\pard\pardeftab720\li2981\ri2981\sl280\sa480
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\qc

\b\fs36 \cf2 CHAPTER XIV.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\qr
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.gutenberg.org/files/22002/22002-h/22002-h.htm#toc"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Top}}
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj
\cf2 Although Miss Milner had not foreseen any fatal event resulting from the indignity offered to Lord Frederick, yet she passed a night very different from those to which she had been accustomed. No sooner was she falling into a sleep, than a thousand vague, but distressing, ideas darted across her imagination. Her heart would sometimes whisper to her when she was half asleep, "Lord Frederick is banished from you for ever." She shakes off the uneasiness this idea brings along with it\'97she then starts, and sees the blow still aimed at him by Dorriforth. No sooner has she driven away this painful image, than she is again awakened by beholding her guardian at her feet sueing for pardon. She sighs, she trembles, and is chilled with terror.\
Relieved by tears, towards the morning she sinks into a slumber, but waking, finds the same images crowding all together upon her mind: she is doubtful to which to give the preference\'97one, however, rushes the foremost, and continues so. She knows not the fatal consequence of ruminating, nor why she dwells upon that, more than upon all the rest, but it will give place to none.\
She rises languid and disordered, and at breakfast, adds fresh pain to Dorriforth by her altered appearance.\
He had scarce left the room, when an officer waited upon him with a challenge from Lord Frederick. To the message delivered by this gentleman, he replied,\
"Sir, as a clergyman, more especially of the church of Rome, I know not whether I am not exempt from answering a demand of this kind; but not having had forbearance to avoid an offence, I will not claim an exemption that would only indemnify me from making reparation."\
"You will then, Sir, meet Lord Frederick at the appointed hour?" said the officer.\
"I will, Sir; and my immediate care shall be to find a gentleman who will accompany me."\
The officer withdrew, and when Dorriforth was again alone, he was going once more to reflect, but he durst not. Since yesterday, reflection, for the first time, was become painful to him; and even as he rode the short way to Lord Elmwood's immediately after, he found his own thoughts were so insufferable, that he was obliged to enter into conversation with his servant. Solitude, that formerly charmed him, would, at those moments, have been worse than death.\
At Lord Elmwood's, he met Sandford in the hall, and the sight of him was no longer welcome\'97he knew how different the principles which he had just adopted were to those of that reverend friend, and without his complaining, or even suspecting what had happened, his presence was a sufficient reproach. He passed him as hastily as he could, and enquiring for Lord Elmwood, disclosed to him his errand. It was to ask him to be his second;\'97the young Earl started, and wished to consult his tutor, but that, his kinsman strictly forbade; and having urged his reasons with arguments, which at least\'a0
\i he
\i0 \'a0could not refute, he was at length prevailed upon to promise that he would accompany him to the field, which was at the distance only of a few miles, and the parties were to be there at seven on the same evening.\
As soon as his business with Lord Elmwood was settled, Dorriforth returned home, to make preparations for the event which might ensue from this meeting. He wrote letters to several of his friends, and one to his ward, in writing which, he could with difficulty preserve the usual firmness of his mind. Sandford going into Lord Elmwood's library soon after his relation had left him, expressed his surprise at finding he was gone; upon which that nobleman having answered a few questions, and given a few significant hints that he was entrusted with a secret, frankly confessed, what he had promised to conceal.\
Sandford, as much as a holy man could be, was enraged at Dorriforth for the cause of the challenge, but was still more enraged at his wickedness in accepting it. He applauded his pupil's virtue in making the discovery, and congratulated\'a0himself that he should be the instrument of saving not only his friend's life, but of preventing the scandal of his being engaged in a duel.\
In the ardour of his designs, he went immediately to Miss Milner's\'97entered that house which he had so long refused to enter, and at a time when he was upon aggravated bad terms with its owner.\
He asked for Dorriforth, went hastily into his apartment, and poured upon him a torrent of rebukes. Dorriforth bore all he said with the patience of a devotee, but with the firmness of a man. He owned his fault, but no eloquence could make him recall the promise he had given to repair the injury. Unshaken by the arguments, persuasions, and menaces of Sandford, he gave an additional proof of that inflexibility for which he had been long distinguished\'97and after a dispute of two hours, they parted, neither of them the better for what either had advanced, but Dorriforth something the worse; his conscience gave testimony to Sandford's opinion, "that he was bound by ties more sacred than worldly honour." But while he owned, he would not yield to the duty.\
Sandford left him, determined, however, that Lord Elmwood should not be accessory in his guilt, and this he declared; upon which Dorriforth took the resolution of seeking another second.\
In passing through the house on his return home, Sandford met, by accident, Mrs. Horton, Miss Milner, and the other two ladies returning from a saunter in the garden. Surprised at the sight of Mr. Sandford in her house, Miss Milner would not express that surprise, but going up to him with all the friendly benevolence which in general played about her heart, she took hold of one of his hands, and pressed it with a kindness which told him more forcibly that he was welcome, than if she had made the most elaborate speech to convince him of it. He, however, seemed little touched with her behaviour, and as an excuse for breaking his word, cried,\
"I beg your pardon, madam, but I was brought hither in my anxiety to prevent murder."
\fs22\fsmilli11200 ]\

\fs24 "Murder!" exclaimed all the ladies.\
"Yes," answered he, addressing himself to Miss Fenton, "your betrothed husband is a party concerned; he is going to be second to Mr. Dorriforth, who means this very evening to be killed by my Lord Frederick, or to kill him, in addition to the blow that he gave him last night."\
Mrs. Horton exclaimed, "if Mr. Dorriforth dies, he dies a martyr."\
Miss Woodley cried with fervour, "Heaven forbid!"\
Miss Fenton cried, "dear me!"\
While Miss Milner, without uttering one word, sunk speechless on the floor.\
They lifted her up and brought her to the door which entered into the garden. She soon recovered; for the tumult of her mind would not suffer her to remain inactive, and she was rouzed, in spite of her weakness, to endeavour to ward off the impending disaster. In vain, however, she attempted to walk to her guardian's apartment\'97she sunk as before, and was taken to a settee, while Miss Woodley was dispatched to bring him to her.\
Informed of the cause of her indisposition, he followed Miss Woodley with a tender anxiety for her health, and with grief and confusion that he had so carelessly endangered it. On his entering the room Sandford beheld the inquietude of his mind, and cried, "Here is your\'a0
\i Guardian
\i0 ," with a cruel emphasis on the word.\
He was too much engaged by the sufferings of his ward to reply to Sandford. He placed himself on the settee by her, and with the utmost tenderness, reverence, and pity, entreated her not to be concerned at an accident in which he, and he alone, had been to blame; but which he had no doubt would be accommodated in the most amicable manner.\
"I have one favour to require of you, Mr. Dorriforth," said she, "and that is, your promise, your solemn promise, which I know is ever sacred, that you will not meet my Lord Frederick."\
He hesitated.\
"Oh, Madam," cried Sandford, "he is grown a libertine\'a0now, and I would not believe his word, if he were to give it you."\
"Then, Sir," returned Dorriforth angrily, "you\'a0
\i may
\i0 \'a0believe my word, for I will keep that which I gave to\'a0
\i you
\i0 . I will give Lord Frederick all the restitution in my power. But my dear Miss Milner, let not this alarm you; we may not find it convenient to meet this many a day; and most probably some fortunate explanation may prevent our meeting at all. If not, reckon but among the many duels that are fought, how few are fatal: and even in that case, how small would be the loss to society, if\'97\'97" He was proceeding.\
"I should ever deplore the loss!" cried Miss Milner; "on such an occasion, I could not survive the death of either."\
"For my part," he replied, "I look upon my life as much forfeited to my Lord Frederick, to whom I have given a high offence, as it might in other instances have been forfeited to the offended laws of the land. Honour, is the law of the polite part of the land; we know it; and when we transgress against it knowingly, we justly incur our punishment. However, Miss Milner, this affair will not be settled immediately, and I have no doubt, but that all will be as you could wish. Do you think I should appear thus easy," added he with a smile, "if I were going to be shot at by my Lord Frederick?"\
"Very well!" cried Sandford, with a look that evinced he was better informed.\
"You will stay within then, all this day?" said Miss Milner.\
"I am engaged to dinner," he replied; "it is unlucky\'97I am sorry for it\'97but I'll be at home early in the evening."\
"Stained with human blood," cried Sandford, "or yourself a corpse."\
The ladies lifted up their hands!\'97Miss Milner rose from her seat, and threw herself at her guardian's feet.\
"You kneeled to me last night, I now kneel to you," (she cried) "kneel, never desiring to rise again, if you persist in your intention. I am weak, I am volatile, I am indiscreet,\'a0but I have a heart from which some impressions can never\'97oh! never, be erased."\
He endeavoured to raise her, she persisted to kneel\'97and here the affright, the terror, the anguish, she endured, discovered to her, 
\b her own sentiments\'97which, till that moment, she had doubted\'97and she continued,\
"I no longer pretend to conceal my passion\'97I love Lord Frederick Lawnly."
\b0 \
Her guardian started.\
"Yes, to my shame I love him:" (cried she, all emotion) "I meant to have struggled with the weakness, because I supposed it would be displeasing to you\'97but apprehension for his safety has taken away every power of restraint, and I beseech you to spare his life."\
"This is exactly what I thought," cried Sandford, with an air of triumph.\
"Good heaven!" cried Miss Woodley.\
"But it is very natural," said Mrs. Horton.\
"I own," said Dorriforth, (struck with amaze, and now taking her from his feet with a force that she could not resist) "I own, Miss Milner, I am greatly affected and wounded at this contradiction in your character."\'97\
"But did not I say so?" cried Sandford, interrupting him.\
"However," continued he, "you may take my word, though you have deceived me in your's, that Lord Frederick's life is secure. For your sake, I would not endanger it for the universe. But let this be a warning to you"\'97\'97\
He was proceeding with the most austere looks, and pointed language, when observing the shame, and the self-reproach that agitated her mind, he divested himself in great measure of his resentment, and said, mildly,\
"Let this be a warning to you, how you deal in future with the friends who wish you well. You have hurried me into a mistake that might have cost me my life, or the life of the man you love; and thus exposed\'a0
\i you
\i0 \'a0to misery, more bitter than death."\

\b "I am not worthy of your friendship, Mr. Dorriforth," said she, sobbing with grief, "and from this moment forsake me."
\fs22\fsmilli11200 \

\fs24 "No, Madam, not in the moment you first discover to me, how I can make you happy."
\b0 \
The conversation appearing now to become of a nature in which the rest of the company could have no share whatever, they were all, except Mr. Sandford, retiring; when Miss Milner called Miss Woodley back, saying, "Stay you with me; I was never so unfit to be left without your friendship."\
"Perhaps at present you can dispense with mine?" said Dorriforth. She made no answer. He then, once more assured her Lord Frederick's life was safe, and was quitting the room\'97but when he recollected in what humiliation he had left her, turning towards her as he opened the door, he added,\
"And be assured, Madam, that my esteem for you, shall be\'a0
\i the same as ever
\i0 ."\
Sandford, as he followed him, bowed, and repeated the same words\'97"And, Madam, be assured that my esteem for you, shall be the same as ever."\
\pard\pardeftab720\li2981\ri2981\sl280\sa480
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\qc

\b\fs36 \cf2 CHAPTER XV.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\qr
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.gutenberg.org/files/22002/22002-h/22002-h.htm#toc"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Top}}
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj
\cf2 This taunting reproof from Sandford made little impression upon Miss Milner, whose thoughts were all fixed on a subject of much more importance than the opinion which he entertained of her. She threw her arms about her friend the moment they were left alone, and asked, with anxiety, "What she thought of her behaviour?" Miss Woodley, who could not approve of the duplicity she had betrayed, still wished to reconcile her as much as possible to her own conduct, and replied, she "Highly commended the frankness with which she had, at last, acknowledged her sentiments."\

\b "Frankness!" cried Miss Milner, starting. "Frankness, my dear Miss Woodley! What you have just now heard me say, is all a falsehood."\

\b0 "How, Miss Milner!"\
"Oh, Miss Woodley," returned she, sobbing upon her bosom, "pity the agonies of my heart, my heart, by nature\'a0sincere, when such are the fatal propensities it cherishes, that I must submit to the grossest falsehoods rather than reveal the truth."\
"What can you mean?" cried Miss Woodley, with the strongest amazement in her face.\
"Do you suppose I love Lord Frederick? Do you suppose I\'a0
\i can
\i0 \'a0love him? Oh fly, and prevent my guardian from telling him such an untruth."\
"What can you mean?" repeated Miss Woodley; "I protest you terrify me." For this inconsistency in the behaviour of Miss Milner, appeared as if her senses had been deranged.\
"Fly," she resumed, "and prevent the inevitable ill consequence which will ensue, if Lord Frederick should be told this falsehood. It will involve us all in greater disquiet than we suffer at present."\
"Then what has influenced you, my dear Miss Milner?"\
"That which impels all my actions\'97an unsurmountable instinct\'97a fatality, that will for ever render me the most miserable of human beings; and yet you, even you, my dear Miss Woodley, will not pity me."\
Miss Woodley pressed her closely in her arms, and vowed, "That while she was unhappy, from whatever cause, she still would pity her."\

\b "Go to Mr. Dorriforth then, and prevent him from imposing upon Lord Frederick."\
"But that imposition is the only means of preventing the duel," replied Miss Woodley. "The moment I have told him that your affection was but counterfeited, he will no longer refuse accepting the challenge."\
"Then at all events I am undone," exclaimed Miss Milner, "for the duel is horrible, even beyond every thing else."
\b0 \
"How so?" returned Miss Woodley, "since you have declared you do not care for Lord Frederick?"\

\b "But are you so blind," returned Miss Milner with a degree of madness in her looks, "as to believe I do not care for Mr. Dorriforth? Oh! Miss Woodley! I love him with all the passion of a mistress, and with all the tenderness of a wife."
\b0\fs22\fsmilli11200 \

\fs24 Miss Woodley at this sentence sat down\'97it was on a chair that was close to her\'97her feet could not have taken her to any other. She trembled\'97she was white as ashes, and deprived of speech. Miss Milner, taking her by the hand, said,\
"I know what you feel\'97I know what you think of me\'97and how much you hate and despise me. But Heaven is witness to all my struggles\'97nor would I, even to myself, acknowledge the shameless prepossession, till forced by a sense of his danger"\'97\'97\
"Silence," cried Miss Woodley, struck with horror.\
"And even now," resumed Miss Milner, "have I not concealed it from all but you, by plunging myself into a new difficulty, from which I know not how I shall be extricated? And do I entertain a hope? No, Miss Woodley, nor ever will. But suffer me to own my folly to you\'97to entreat your soothing friendship to free me from my weakness. And, oh! give me your advice, to deliver me from the difficulties which surround me."\
Miss Woodley was still pale, and still silent.\
Education, is called second nature; in the strict (but not enlarged) education of Miss Woodley, it was more powerful than the first\'97and the violation of oaths, persons, or things consecrated to Heaven, was, in her opinion, if not the most enormous, yet among the most terrific in the catalogue of crimes.\
Miss Milner had lived so long in a family who had imbibed those opinions, that she was convinced of their existence; nay, her own reason told her that solemn vows of every kind, ought to be sacred; and 
\b the more she respected her guardian's understanding, the less did she call in question his religious tenets\'97in esteeming him, she esteemed all his notions; and among the rest, venerated those of his religion.
\b0  Yet 
\b that passion, which had unhappily taken possession of her whole soul, would not have been inspired, had there not subsisted an early difference, in their systems of divine faith. Had she been early taught what were the sacred functions of a Roman ecclesiastic, though all her esteem, all her admiration, had been attracted by the qualities and accomplishments\'a0of her guardian, yet education, would have given such a prohibition to her love, that she would have been precluded from it, as by that barrier which divides a sister from a brother
\b0 .\
This, unfortunately, was not the case; and Miss Milner loved Dorriforth without one conscious check to tell her she was wrong, except that which convinced her\'97her love would be avoided by him with detestation, and with horror.\
Miss Woodley, something recovered from her first surprise, and sufferings\'97for never did her susceptible mind suffer so exquisitely\'97amidst all her grief and abhorrence, felt that pity was still predominant\'97and reconciled to the faults of Miss Milner by her misery, she once more looked at her with friendship, and asked, "What she could do to render her less unhappy?"\
"Make me forget," replied Miss Milner, "every moment of my life since I first saw you\'97that moment was teeming with a weight of cares, under which I must labour till my death."\
"And even in death," replied Miss Woodley, "do not hope to shake them off. If unrepented in this world"\'97\'97\
She was proceeding\'97but the anxiety her friend endured, would not suffer her to be free from the apprehension, that, notwithstanding the positive assurance of her guardian, if he and Lord Frederick should meet, the duel might still take place; she therefore rang the bell and enquired if Mr. Dorriforth was still at home?\'97the answer was\'97"He had rode out. You remember," said Miss Woodley, "he told you he should dine from home." This did not, however, dismiss her fears, and she dispatched two servants different ways in pursuit of him, acquainting them with her suspicions, and charging them to prevent the duel. Sandford had also taken his precautions; but though he knew the time, he did not know the exact place of their appointment, for that Lord Elmwood had forgot to enquire.\
The excessive alarm which Miss Milner discovered upon this occasion, was imputed by the servants, and by others who were witnesses of it, to her affection for Lord Frederick;\'a0while none but Miss Woodley knew, or had the most distant suspicion of the real cause.\
Mrs. Horton and Miss Fenton, who were sitting together expatiating on the duplicity of their own sex in the instance just before them, had, notwithstanding the interest of the discourse, a longing desire to break it off; for they were impatient to see this poor frail being whom they were loading with their censure. They longed to see if she would have the confidence to look them in the face: them, to whom she had so often protested, that she had not the smallest attachment to Lord Frederick, but from motives of vanity.\
These ladies heard with infinite satisfaction that dinner had been served, but met Miss Milner at the table with a less degree of pleasure than they had expected; for her mind was so totally abstracted from any consideration of\'a0
\i them
\i0 , that they could not discern a single blush, or confused glance, which their presence occasioned. No, she had before them divulged nothing of which she was ashamed; she was only ashamed that what she had said was not true. In the bosom of Miss Woodley alone was that secret entrusted which could call a blush into her face, and before her, she\'a0
\i did
\i0 \'a0feel confusion\'97before the gentle friend, to whom she had till this time communicated all her faults without embarrassment, she now cast down her eyes in shame.\
Soon after the dinner was removed, Lord Elmwood entered; and that gallant young nobleman declared\'97"Mr. Sandford had used him ill, in not permitting him to accompany his relation; for he feared that Mr. Dorriforth would now throw himself upon the sword of Lord Frederick, without a single friend near to defend him." A rebuke from the eye of Miss Woodley, which from this day had a command over Miss Milner, restrained her from expressing the affright she suffered from this intimation. Miss Fenton replied, "As to that, my Lord, I see no reason why Mr. Dorriforth and Lord Frederick should not now be friends." "Certainly," said Mrs. Horton; "for as soon as my Lord Frederick is made acquainted with Miss Milner's confession, all differences must be reconciled."\
"What confession?" asked Lord Elmwood.
\fs22\fsmilli11200 \

\fs24 Miss Milner, to avoid hearing a repetition of that which gave her pain even to recollect, rose in order to retire into her own apartment, but was obliged to sit down again, till she received the assistance of Lord Elmwood and her friend, who led her into her dressing room. She reclined upon a sofa there, and though left alone with that friend, a silence followed of half an hour; nor when the conversation began, was the name of Dorriforth once uttered\'97they were grown cool and considerate since the discovery, and both were equally fearful of naming him.\
The vanity of the world, the folly of riches, the charms of retirement, and such topics engaged their discourse, but not their thoughts, for near two hours; and the first time the word Dorriforth was spoken, was by a servant, who with alacrity opened the dressing room door, without previously rapping, and cried, "Madam, Mr. Dorriforth."\
Dorriforth immediately came in, and went eagerly to Miss Milner. Miss Woodley beheld the glow of joy and of guilt upon her face, and did not rise to give him her seat, as was her custom, when she was sitting by his ward and he came to her with intelligence. He therefore stood while he repeated all that had happened in his interview with Lord Frederick.\

\b But with her gladness to see her guardian safe, she had forgot to enquire of the safety of his antagonist; of the man whom she had pretended to love so passionately\'97even smiles of rapture were upon her face, though Dorriforth might be returned from putting him to death. 
\b0 This incongruity of behaviour Miss Woodley observed, and was confounded\'97but Dorriforth, in whose thoughts a suspicion either of her love for him, or indifference for Lord Frederick, had no place, easily reconciled this inconsistency, and said,\

\b "You see by my countenance that all is well, and therefore you smile on me before I tell you what has passed."\
This brought her to the recollection of her conduct, and now with looks ill constrained, she attempted the expression of an alarm she did not feel.
\b0 \
"Nay, I assure you Lord Frederick is safe," he resumed, "and the disgrace of his blow washed entirely away, by a few\'a0drops of blood from this arm." And he laid his hand upon his left arm, which rested in his waistcoat as a kind of sling.\
She cast her eyes there, and seeing where the ball had entered the coat sleeve, she gave an involuntary scream, and sunk upon the sofa. 
\b Instead of that affectionate sympathy which Miss Woodley used to exert upon her slightest illness or affliction, she now addressed her in an unpitying tone, and said, "Miss Milner, you have heard Lord Frederick is safe, you have therefore nothing to alarm you."
\b0  Nor did she run to hold a smelling bottle, or to raise her head. Her guardian seeing her near fainting, and without any assistance from her friend, was going himself to give it; but on this, Miss Woodley interfered, and having taken her head upon her arm, assured him, "It was a weakness to which Miss Milner was accustomed: that she would ring for her maid, who knew how to relieve her instantly with a few drops." Satisfied with this, Dorriforth left the room; and a surgeon being come to examine his wound, he retired into his own chamber.\
}