{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Of course, the best way to experience the moral improvements of distress, in the eighteenth century, was to go to the theatre to see a tragedy. When the literature of sensibility transitions to the stage, it no longer addresses an audience of one reader, whose reflections in distress it has leisure to philosophize over. Instead, theatrical productions of sensibility seek to unite their widely differing audience members in a shared experience of feeling and resolution. In so doing, they heighten the role of literature as a simulated experience of distress which is meant to substitute for the real thing. Hannah More\'92s 
\i Percy
\i0  (1778) and Mary Robinson\'92s 
\i The Sicilian Lover
\i0  (1796) both present persecuted heroines whose dutiful obedience renders them aesthetically interesting even as they are unable to ameliorate their situations. Elwina and Honoria have both been commanded by their fathers to marry men to whom they are indifferent; Elwina concedes, Honoria refuses, and neither achieves a happy outcome. The conflict between love and duty is itself inescapable, with no winning move: instead, then, both heroines indulge their misery, vindicated through the spectacle of their suffering. At the conclusion of the plays, the final speeches indicate that the audience is to be united in their pity for the tragic lovers, able to proceed onward as stronger moral agents.}