{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Smith\'92s posthumous critical reception has undergone multiple shifts in appreciation and obscurity. Duckling\'92s study of her presence in anthologies indicates that shortly after her death in 1806, Smith was widely eulogized and anthologized, remembered and emulated as an important British poet. As the nineteenth century went on, poetesses began to be anthologized separately from poets, in collections with ambitions that were commercial rather than intellectual; Smith, too, \'93lost intellectual ground\'94 even as she continued to be sold (Duckling 2016). By the end of the nineteenth century, even these volumes marginalized Smith\'92s poetry, with prefatory material which dismissed them as trite and depressing, unenjoyable reading. In the early twentieth century, Smith began to be considered as a novelist, rather than a poet; this new field did not lead at first to a much better reputation for her. Florence Hilbish produced the first extensive study of Smith, considering her as both poet and novelist, in 1941, to unappreciative reviews: Ernest Bernbaum\'92s faint praise said that \'93\'91much time and care have been devoted to it; whether deservedly, is perhaps questionable,\'94 since \'93the subtle or intricate is absent from Charlotte Smith's writings\'94 (138). Hilbish presents Smith\'92s emotional poetry as sincere rather than conventional, and her prose as more motivated by politics than commerce.\
Duckling credits the feminist movement of the 1960s and 1970s with the beginning of Smith\'92s recovery (217): the renewed interest in women\'92s writing rediscovered her novels, and especially the radical political content which Hilbish had observed. At the same time, Bishop Hunt published a record of Smith\'92s influence on Wordsworth, as demonstrated by an almost overwhelming amount of physical evidence: Wordsworth owned copies of her works, which he annotated; he copied out some of her sonnets in his own hand; he paid her a personal visit; he edited some of her poetry for publication; he wrote explicitly of her influence in notes to his works. Hunt calls Smith \'93an important early influence on Wordsworth which has not been explored in any detail up to now\'94 (85); his abstract somewhat snarkily asserts that \'93Wordsworth did not suddenly start writing sonnets in 1802 simply because he happened to read Milton\'92s.\'94 However, Hunt has little praise for Smith herself: of one poem, he says, \'93Whatever the artistic value of such verses,\'94 what matters is the underlying theme which Wordsworth would later express more masterfully (89). Smith continued to be treated separately as an interesting woman novelist, and a minor pre-Romantic poet, through the 1980s. Smith rose to greater prominence in both of these fields in the 1990s: with work by Stephen Curran, Roger Lonsdale, Jennifer Breen, Andrew Ashfield, and Jacqueline Labbe, \'93Smith became established not only as a prominent figure in the revised female canon, but also as a central figure in Romanticism\'94 (Duckling 217).\
Throughout this history, two aspects of Smith which have prompted frequent re-assessments are her personal life, and her work across genres. The first matter, the importance of a female author\'92s life as a woman to her importance as a figure worth remembering, is implicit in several phases of the rise and fall described above. Fry is not alone in concluding that \'93[f]ew writers have presented themselves in their works so fully as did Charlotte Smith\'94 (3): Smith\'92s poetry lyricizes her personal experiences, her novels feature autobiographical stand-in characters, and \'93the often intensely personal pleading prefaces\'94 (Behrendt 189) to her works explicitly ask for them to be read light of her ongoing struggles. Perhaps as a result, much scholarship on Smith takes the stance of 
\i The Literary Encyclopedia
\i0  in defining her as a woman who wrote because of, and chiefly about, her personal distress. Antje Blank\'92s article there highlights Smith\'92s financial motive to write: \'93Smith turned to writing when a failing marriage and a costly lawsuit left her without resources to raise her large family\'94 (Blank). \'93And so,\'94 Blank says, Smith \'93churned out\'94 her novels (and the many editions of 
\i Elegiac Sonnets
\i0 , and her other poetry, and her educational writing) to support herself and her nine children (Blank). Even when Smith\'92s Elegiac Sonnets \'93won her the reputation as an author of serious verse,\'94 this is important primarily because it \'93lent greater respectability to her ensuing productions in a less prestigious but more lucrative genre \'96 the novel\'94 (Blank). At the same time, as Labbe argues in her article \'93Selling One's Sorrows: Charlotte Smith, Mary Robinson, and the Marketing of Poetry,\'94 Smith cultivated a public persona as a paragon of victimhood and motherhood, suffering deeply but turning her suffering into marketable prose out of a duty to her children. In periods where this image of womanhood is valuable, Smith is more easily valued, as in the eighteenth and nineteenth century anthologies which saw Smith as a moral exemplar (Duckling 203-4). Or, in periods when women\'92s resistance to patriarchal oppression is of scholarly interest, the direct, personal nature of Smith\'92s writing is valuable in itself, as in early feminist scholarship.\
A complicating factor to these evaluations of Smith is that, as Labbe\'92s edited volume 
\i Charlotte Smith in British Romanticism 
\i0 thoroughly demonstrates, Smith\'92s writing is neither as uniform nor as simplistically personal as autobiographical readings sometimes see it. Labbe contends that Smith-the-novelist and Smith-the-poet have been largely studied as separate entities, \'93and consequently we have been learning about two separate Smiths, each closely linked to the genre she writes in, neither closely linked to the other\'94 (5). Labbe is not quite the first to attempt to unify Smith: Carol L. Fry\'92s 1996 monograph 
\i Charlotte Smith
\i0  also addresses her poetry before moving on to the several phases of her novel-writing, including the children\'92s writing which made up much of Smith\'92s later career but does not appear in Labbe. Indeed, from the beginning, Hilbish\'92s 1941 monograph explicitly identifies Smith as \'93Poet and Novelist\'94 in its title. However, Labbe is accurate regarding the somewhat different assessments of Smith current in the somewhat separate study of novels and of poetry in general: Labbe argues that as a novelist, Smith is now often praised for her innovative narrative techniques (implying a mode of writing that is intellectual and \'91distant\'92), whereas as a poet, she is praised for her innovative expressions of interiority (implying a mode of writing that is emotional and \'91close\'92). Labbe draws greater attention to important differences between Smith\'92s writing personae in different genres, and her edited collection \'93pulls together many Smiths\'94 (2) to address these disjunctions. The volume not only addresses her novels and poetry, but also includes her plays, letters, and posthumous reception. Each of these Smiths, the volume contends, has something innovative and unexpected to reveal, important to the formation of British Romanticism. In Judith Phillips Stanton\'92s \'93Recovering Charlotte Smith's Letters,\'94 for example, Smith\'92s letters, less studied, reveal a third kind of writer, different from both the novelist and the poet, who conceives of herself as a professional businesswoman of her craft. More Smiths are available in genres not included in this volume, such as Smith the naturalist and children\'92s author (touched on only lightly in Labbe\'92s volume), or Smith the political philosopher who drives Amy Garnai\'92s 
\i Revolutionary Imaginings in the 1790s, 
\i0 a highly political Smith who consciously participates in the \'93political public sphere\'94 conceived by Habermas, despite Habermas\'92 insistence that women were excluded from this sphere (1){\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3EE927F6-B68C-4C4C-B4CF-0A9CD40F29BA"}}{\fldrslt 
\i .}}
\i  
\i0 From these distinctions, Labbe concludes that \'93Smith, significantly, composes herself anew according to genre\'94 (2) \'97 and then asks, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://60432D3B-EE8E-4BC9-896D-20A0B57A4283"}}{\fldrslt \'93Is it all to do with inherent qualities of genre, or is it more to do with the expectations we as readers bring to different genres?\'94}} (5). This question about genre is one of the \cf2 initial\cf0  questions \cf2 to inspire\cf0  this dissertation: to see it asked as a core question about Smith demonstrates Smith\'92s suitability as a figure whose career can shed light on important questions about the mediascape of the 1790s.\cf2 \
The specific experimentation undertaken in chapter two tests the basic assumptions and methods of my project. I identify what subset of Smith\'92s works each corpus contains, as a concrete example to compare their holdings overall. Smith\'92s 
\i Elegiac Sonnets
\i0 , for example, are not included in the ECCO-TCP corpus (which is the one most often used for text mining research) \'97 only 
\i Celestina
\i0  and 
\i The Emigrants
\i0  are included. Why these two texts? And what text mining research based on ECCO-TCP might have found slightly different answers if Smith\'92s sonnets had been included? As an opposing example, HathiTrust includes multiple editions of 
\i Elegiac Sonnets
\i0 . How reliable and effective are its distinctions between editions? How do the databases I examine handle multiple editions of a single work? As a related test of comparison between databases, for each database which provides access to the actual text of Smith\'92s works, I compare the textual similarity of 
\i Celestina
\i0  and 
\i The Emigrants.
\i0  What editorial choices are being made? How 
\i much
\i0  worse is the OCR text than the transcribed text? Having surveyed my six databases with the help of Smith, I discuss the multiple \'93Smiths\'94 which emerge, and what it means to attempt to unify her disparate works.}