{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl960\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 <$Scr_H::1>
\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 So, if this works, what works?
\f2\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl520\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::1>
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 The value of speculative computing, as a methodology in a liminal space between the humanities and computer science, lies in its ability to be useless in a thought-provoking way. Of course one would not seriously suggest that we study literary history through texts chosen at random, but what would happen if we did it anyway? The perversity of this method might seem like a bad-faith interpretation of literary studies, or an attempt to debunk or hoax literature scholarship. If scholars expend considerable expertise in order to select specific illustrative texts to support their arguments about a period of literature, why should it \'93work\'94 to skip that expertise? If I produce an analysis from random texts, doesn\'92t that mean that other scholars\'92 choices of texts don\'92t matter? But I do this experiment in part to understand why literary analysis 
\i does
\i0  work: if textual selection isn\'92t the important part, then the important part lies elsewhere. At first, I thought it was very possible that this would not work, that I would produce an incoherent list with nothing to offer our understanding of 1790s literature. (Indeed, my reader may still judge that I have failed.) But as I began to read, it seemed like literary close-reading can in fact find informative meaning even with completely arbitrary texts. I think this success is not, in fact, too remarkable. If the core thesis is something like \'93historical contexts have perceivable impacts on literary output,\'94 then those impacts ought to be present in all texts\'97 and therefore ought to be perceivable in any text.
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl520\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 One of the pleasurable impulses that drives literary-historical research is the feeling that one\'92s explorations are special. Often it can seem as if you are the first person to read, or to care about, a text or a person in hundreds of years. That intimacy across time gains its sacred aura in part from its exclusivity; to love Jane Austen has a very different tenor than if one loves Charlotte Smith, or loves Susannah Goodall. Sharing one\'92s discoveries is a double-edged sword: love asks to be shared, but if it is shared too successfully, one\'92s own love may be threatened with diminishment, lost in a more general and therefore less special love.
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 Selecting items completely at random may seem to be a poor methodology to find a new love. But what reparative reading shows us is that the object of love need not be worthy of that love; it may shape or colour the form of love, but the \'93plenitude\'94 comes from the lover, not the beloved. Any object becomes lovable when examined with a loving eye. To observe, in minute detail, is to love.
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl520\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Literature is, surely, tied to cultural capital. But it is also tied to pleasure, and potentially to love. When we discuss literature with others, we enter capital\'92s world; one may wish to seem erudite, or one may wish to seem \'93hip,\'94 and one may present a particular literary \'91face\'92 accordingly. But the literature one discusses need not align too closely with the literature one loves. [This is too bland/generic, but also possibly getting toward the important thing]}