{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Dugaw, writing in 1987, seeks to revise the scholarly understanding of the eighteenth century \'91ballad revival.\'92 This \'91revival\'92, Dugaw says, had been conventionally understood as a revival in antiquarian and literary appreciation for ballads \'97 \'93an openly ackowledged interest in the ballad 
\i on the sophisticated level
\i0 \'94 (Albert Friedman, qtd in Dugal 71, emphasis original) and therefore unrelated to the actual singing of ballads by the ballad\'92s \'91real\'92 or \'91original\'92 audience of working-class people. Dugaw identifies a version of this \'93sophisticated\'94 antiquarian interest even in \'91popular\'92 audiences, as demonstrated through the marketing of \'91old\'92 ballads. She says: \'93Trained to only view literary culture from the top down, modern scholars have overlooked the significant popularity of \'91ancient\'92 ballads in the lowbrow street literature\'85 The fact is, ordinary people, who did not belong to what Friedman calls the \'91literary world,\'92 purchase ballads marketed explicitly for their historical and antiquarian value\'94 (72). That emphasis on the \'93top down\'94 view of literary culture indicates an interesting critique of the methodological blind spots of a certain way of studying literary history.\
My randomly-chosen copy of \'93Babes in the Wood\'94 therefore seems to participate in this tradition, in its description of itself as \'93The excellent 
\i old
\i0  ballad.\'94 In this, it differs from three of the copies I\'92ve used as proxies: STC T192107, \'93The Babes in the Wood\'94; STC T222523, \'93The Two Babes in the Wood\'94; and STC T188936 \'93The Babes in the Wood\'94. All of these lead straightforwardly with the title of the ballad itself, though the last, STC T188936, then adds as a possible selling point that the ballad is \'93a true Relation\'94 of events. The two proxies printed in Edinburgh, however, also include the age of the ballad as a selling point: STC T52073, \'93Two Excellent Old Songs, The Babes in the Wood\'85\'94 and STC T177930, \'93Two Excellent Old Songs Entituled, The Babes in the Wood\'85,\'94 both of which add \'93Johnny Coup\'94 as the second \'93Excellent Old Song.\'94\
\
Dugaw mostly discusses collections of ballads and their prefatory or editorial notes to make her points. One relevant note is that old ballads were often typeset different from new songs and lighter fare; the old ballads would be printed folio fashion with illustrated woodcuts (80-83). The image she includes of a ballad (82) looks 
\i just like
\i0  the broadsheet copy of \'93Babes.\'94}