{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 1053\cf4  - Le juge \'e0 paix, et officier de paroisse, pour la province de Quebec. Extrait de Richard Burn, chancellier du dioc\'e8se de Charlisle, & un des juges \'e0 paix de Sa Majest\'e9, pour les comt\'e9s de Westmorland & Cumberland. Traduit par Jos. F. Perrault	M.DCC.LXXXIX.[1789]	London, United Kingdom	Richard Burn	\cf2 \
2464\cf4  - An apology for professing the religion of nature, in the eighteenth century of the Christian aera; addressed to the Right Reverend Dr. Watson, Lord Bishop of Landaff	MDCCLXXXIX. [1789]	Oxford, United Kingdom	David Williams\
\cf2 1211\cf4  - Some account of the discovery, made by the late Mr. John Dollond, F. R. S. which led to the grand improvement of refracting telescopes, in Order to Correct some Misrepresentations, in Foreign Publications, of that Discovery: with an attempt to account for the mistake in an experiment made by Sir Isaac Newton; on which Experiment, the Improvement of the Refracting Telescope Entirely Depended. By Peter Dollond, Member of the American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia	 M.DCC.LXXXIX. [1789]	London, United Kingdom Peter Dollond	\cf2 \
1086\cf4  - Reflections on the contentions and disorder of the corporation of Cambridge	M.DCC.LXXXIX. [1789]	Oxford, United Kingdom\
\cf2 51\cf4  - N\'e9cessit\'e9 de supprimer et d'\'e9teindre les ordres religieux en France, prouv\'e9e par l'histoire philosophique du monachisme, ...	1789 London, United Kingdom\cf2 \
938\cf4  - Emma Dorvill. By a lady	MDCCLXXXIX. [1789]	London, United Kingdom\cf2 \
629\cf4  - Virtue and peace forever inseparable. A discourse at the interment of Capt. John Howard, of Hampton, June 17th, 1789. By Joseph Huntington, D.D. [Three lines from Young] A few thoughts appear in the copy which, for the sake of brevity, were omitted in preaching M.DCC.LXXXIX. [1789]	Washington, DC, United States	Joseph Huntington\cf2 \
1524\cf4  - A practical treatise on the gonorrhoea, and on the superior efficacy of the cure by injection. By Peter Clare, surgeon [1789] Boston, MA, United States	Peter Clare	\
\cf2 702\cf4  - Analyse raisonn\'e9e de la sagesse de Charron. premiere partie	M.DCC.LXXXIX. [1789]	Manchester, United Kingdom	Jean-Pierre-Louis de Luchet\cf2 \
1732\cf4  - Two discourses. I. On wisdom attainable by meditation of the vanity of human life ... II. Men more influenced by example than precept; ... Preached ... March 8, 1789, by the Reverend Samuel Hopkinson, ...	[1789]	London, United Kingdom	Samuel Hopkinson}