{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red0\green0\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 I contend that each database is best understood as a negotiation between the noncommercial values of textual reproduction and \cf3 the commercial environment in which institutions much remain financially solvent\cf2 . Each database has the goal of making valuable information available. After the 1990s, they are particularly influenced by the utopian ideal that digital reproduction at last made textual reproduction free. Each had to contend, however, with the fact that before a text can be reproduced digitally it must be 
\i \cf2 created
\i0 \cf2  digitally, and that even if the material costs are entirely eliminated (which, of course, they are not) textual creation continues to have costs in labour.\cf3  In Paddy Bullard\'92s \'93Digital Humanities and Electronic Resources in the Long Eighteenth Century,\'94 which surveys the research completed and the resources used as of 2013, Bullard is also faced with the task of explaining why multiple services interact so poorly. Bullard, too, observes the core tension between public access vs private profit: \
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\li720\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf4 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Viewing the field of eighteenth-century digital humanities as a single prospect, it is the contrast between publicly funded, open-access sites, and privately owned, subscription-access resources that is most striking. Each side of the divide has much to learn from the other. Publicly funded academic projects must acquire the pragmatism and ambitiousness of scale that commercial developers have always shown. Commercial developers must adapt themselves more generously to the principles of scholarly openness and accuracy. They might also imitate the inventiveness of the open sector, its adaptability to the demands raised by different kinds of primary media. Both sides recognize the desirability of making their resources interoperable across the divide, and the business of interconnectivity will preoccupy all kinds of digital humanist in the coming decade. (756)\cf3 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf3 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 Bullard is correct to note that there are major disjunctions between databases like the 
\i The British Book Trade Index
\i0  or careful online editions like 
\i The Proceedings of the Old Bailey, 1674\'961913
\i0 , compared to massive archives like ECCO. It seems odd, however, to attribute to ECCO 
\i both
\i0  \'93ambitiousness of scale\'94 
\i and
\i0  \'93pragmatism\'94 as the lessons for noncommercial projects to imitate, since an ambitious scale is only plausibly pragmatic for a project with the money to sustain itself. Even odder is the idea that commercial developers might voluntarily choose to \'93adapt themselves more generously to the principles of scholarly openness and accuracy,\'94 when the core business model of a private enterprise relies on its lack of openness, and the private access only seems worth purchasing when its marketers suppress all nuance about accuracy. As Bode observes, \'93the commercial imperatives of these enterprises arguably depend on them presenting these collections as comprehensive\'94 (Bode World 47). In other words, Bullard has observed an underlying system of profit and non-profit in awkward competition, and examined the outputs of these systems in order to articular their particular virtues and describe what a \'91best of both worlds\'92 might look like if both parts of the system sought to collaborate together on how best to achieve maximally useful scholarly resources. What Bullard overlooks in this process is that not all parts of this system have the goal of achieving maximally useful scholarly resources.}