{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93the data I can legally provide\'97 lists of word frequencies associated with each volume or 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ctional character\'97 should allow intrepid readers to retrace the most debatable parts of the argument. An argument that can be retraced in this manner is \'93reproducible.\'94\'94 (173)\
\'93If my conclusions hold true in di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent subsets of the literary past, they are not just reproducible but \'93replicable.\'94\'94 (174)\
\
\'93Debates about distant reading have often centered on controversy about the construc-tion of data. But I believe this is now a residual controversy, hang-ing on beyond the period when it made sense. It has lingered be-cause the term distant reading is still de
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ned, for many scholars, by the polemical context that surrounded it in the year 
\f2 2000
\f0 , when
\b  it seemed to be the culmination of a long argument over the canon
\b0 . 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e pathos of a title like Franco Moretti\'92s \'93Slaughter-house of Literature\'94 came from the implication that existing re-covery projects had been inadequate. Of course, Moretti also said that his goal was not simply to expand coverage. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e real point was rather a new form of comparative analysis made possible by expansion. \'93Slaughterhouse,\'94 for instance, contrasts Arthur Conan Doyle to his contemporary rivals.
\f1 \uc0\u57347 
\f0  But 
\b in the polemical context of the canon wars, this emphasis on comparison was not the part of Moretti\'92s argument that got heard
\b0 ;
\b  what got heard 
\f2\b0  / 
\f0\b instead was a forceful claim that critics\'92 bookshelves had to be replaced by the whole library.\'94
\b0  (174-5)
\b \

\b0 A claim of that kind was guaranteed to annoy several di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent audiences. In defense of canonical works, many scholars replied that widely discussed books may be more important than others: surely a representative sample of the past would assign di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 er-ent weight to di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent volumes?
\f1 \uc0\u57346 
\f0  Scholars interested in minority literatures replied that historical injustices have left some groups underrepresented in libraries. An indiscriminately comprehen-sive collection of books might continue to allow those voices to be drowned out.
\f1 \uc0\u57345 
\f0  Finally, book historians perceived Moretti\'92s dis-cussion of the slaughterhouse as a simpli
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ed version of their own long- standing argument that criticism of great works ignores lit-erary circulation. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 is is not a problem that can be solved simply by multiplying titles. As Katherine Bode has explained, a collec-tion dated by 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 rst publication will never capture the temporality of reading practices, which are free to range over the whole past.
\f1 \uc0\u57471 
\f0\b All of this is true. Every sampling method has limitations, and these are the limitations of a sample that tries to include one copy of every title, dated by 
\f2\b0 fi
\f0\b rst publication.
\b0  
\b If distant reading meant a belief that such samples are the only valid way to represent the past, then these limitations would constitute an argument against distant reading.
\b0  But quantitative inquiry about literary history has never, in reality, limited itself to a single representation of the past. Sometimes distant readers take the whole library as it stands, but often we select subsets, in order to contrast them.\'94 (175)\
\'93In short, 
\b large- scale literary research is necessarily comparative
\b0 . Distant readers often explicitly test their claims against several di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent samples of the literary past, as I have done for instance in the second half of chapter 
\f2 4
\f0 . But even when an argu-ment relies on a single data set, quantitative researchers implicitly understand its claims as part of a larger conversation, organized by a goal of replicability that entails comparisons between dif-ferent kinds of samples. 
\b Critiques of distant reading that argue for or against a particular sampling strategy miss their target by misunderstanding the shape of this conversation.
\b0  I am respond-ing to those critiques in an appendix because I think they are well- intentioned red herrings.\'94 (176)\
\
\'93
\b Why have critics of distant reading overlooked its comparative dimension and portrayed di
\f2\b0 \cf3 ff
\f0\b \cf2 erent collections of books instead as competing alternatives?
\b0  \'85 this is an assumption we inherit from the last few decades of the twentieth century. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e critical interventions of that period did commonly aim to displace one object of study with another, presented as better mirroring social reality. 
\b When canons were at issue, the struggle to de
\f2\b0 fi
\f0\b ne a single representative list was motivated by the limitations of space that force anthologies and syllabi to distill the past down
\b0  to a single / set of texts. 
\b In such a con
\f2\b0 fi
\f0\b ned space, the games critics play are genuinely zero- sum in character
\b0 : new canons can come into be-ing only by displacing old ones.\'94 (176-7)\
\'93Moretti\'92s turn- of- the- century articles sometimes follow the same rules and propose to replace the canon with a new object of study. 
\f2 \cf3 Th
\f0 \cf2 at move turned out to be an e
\f2 \cf3 ff
\f0 \cf2 ective way to focus literary scholars\'92 attention. But it was also an anomaly in the larger history of quantitative literary study, which has not usually centered on debates about the canon.
\b  Once researchers have created digital collections of several thousand titles, it becomes unnecessary to decide on a single representation of the past, since digital collections are easy to subdivide and rebalance. A collection of this sort is analogous to a library, not to a syllabus or anthology
\b0 : it doesn\'92t replace one version of the past with another but provides an enlarged repertoire of options. Instead of arguing about samples as if they were competing canons, we can adopt a relational mode of reasoning about literary history, akin to the methods of social science.\'94 (177)\
\
\'93Since I approach sampling in this pluralistic way, the data un-derpinning this study has not been organized around a single master list of representative books. Instead, each chapter devel-ops a di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent sample, to address a di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent question.
\b  Of course, it would be a lot of work for researchers to construct new samples completely from scratch for every project. So, in practice, digital libraries provide an important resource
\b0 , allowing researchers to construct di
\f2 ff
\f0 erent samples by subdividing a larger collection. In pursuing work of this kind, we don\'92t necessarily have to decide whether libraries are correctly balanced.
\b  We can rebalance our samples as needed. But we do have to spend some time thinking about the outer limits of the collection
\b0 . In this book, for instance, the texts I use are mostly drawn from HathiTrust Digital Li-brary. While a sixteen- million- volume collection is not severely con
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ning, it does have limits worth thinking about, since (as we saw in chapter 
\f1 \uc0\u57367 
\f0 ) the library includes only about half the 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction titles mentioned in Publishers Weekly. More importantly, cover-age varies across time; it becomes distinctly less complete as we move forward to the twentieth century, especially in the period beyond 
\f2 1923
\f0 . As we look at changes across a long timeline, we should remain aware that we\'92re looking at a sample of varying social breadth.\'94 (178)\
\
\'93Other distant readers have been similarly cautious, compar-ing various samples of the literary 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 eld\'97 canonical or obscure, including reprints or excluding them.
\f1 \uc0\u57504 
\f0  Caution of this kind will always remain necessary. But we should also be frank about the size of the di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erence it has made so far. 
\b Cautious comparison of di
\f2\b0 ff
\f0\b erent sampling strategies has almost never changed distant readers\'92 conclusions about century- spanning trends.
\b0  Century- spanning\'94 is the key phrase in that sentence. If we set out to create a complete and balanced picture of a single de-cade, the list of volumes we choose will matter a great deal. But I have argued throughout this book that the salient strength of distant reading is to reveal arcs of change across long timelines. For that goal, many di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent samples are often equally appro-priate. Trends that shape two hundred years of literary history are usually re
\f1 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 ected in every part of the literary 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 eld.\'94 (179)\
\'93To be sure, there are also interesting things we can learn by comparing samples. For instance, researchers at both Illinois and Stanford have noticed that canonical works are commonly 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 fteen or twenty years ahead of the curve.
\f1 \uc0\u57350 \u57517 
\f0  
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 at\'92s a telling detail, likely to repay further investigation; chapter 
\f1 \uc0\u57372 
\f0  of this volume can be understood as an attempt to unpack the implications. But a dif-ference of 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 fteen years between more and less prominent writers doesn\'92t undermine our initial observation that, for instance, liter-ary production as a whole has been moving toward concrete de-scription for two centuries. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 at remains true, whichever sample we choose.\'94 (180)\cf3 \
\
\'93while we continue to think cautiously about sampling and data construction, I would recommend allocating a bit more anxiety to the disciplinary blind spots that wreck our arguments / more often. Researchers should share code, report e
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 ect sizes, and measure uncertainty where possible.\'94 (180-181)\
\'93In this book, for instance, ef-fect sizes have been measured as correlation coe
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57485 
\f0 \cf3 cients or model accuracies; uncertainty has been measured both through resam-pling and by testing di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent interpretive assumptions. I have also spent much of this book arguing that supervised models should be preferred to arbitrary measurements that aim to \'93op-erationalize\'94 a concept. In practice, I think these methodological questions make a bigger di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erence than the questions about data construction critics have tended to dwell on.\'94 (181)\
\
\'93
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 at being said, the next stage of research in distant reading probably does involve a richer and more careful sort of sampling. We will want to gather more social evidence, especially about reception, so we can subdivide samples more carefully, describe shorter timelines more richly, and in some cases move toward causal explanation of literary change. 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 is volume takes a few tentative steps in that direction, but there is a great deal more to be done. At the same time, we can expand our samples of literature by 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 lling gaps, improving texts, and correcting dates. Our existing digital libraries are undeniably imperfect. 
\b \cf3 Optical transcription of eighteenth- century books is so bad that it re-mains hard to do certain kinds of research in the period.
\b0 \cf3  Pulp magazines are not well covered, and more generally, it is not easy to extract a single story or article from a serial. Languages other than English are not always well served; within English litera-ture, ethnic minorities need richer representation. Metadata are imperfect: in this book I have usually limited my collection to the earliest copy of each title, but in chapters 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57369 
\f0 \cf3  and 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57367 
\f0 \cf3 , working with hundreds of thousands of volumes, I have not rigorously dated everything by 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 rst publication.\'94 (181)\
\
\'93So when I write \'93the texts in this book are mostly drawn from HathiTrust,\'94 I am describing a messy process that stretched over several years. In collaboration with graduate students and sta
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3  at HathiTrust Research Center, I had to 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 rst identify volumes of poetry and 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction (algorithmically, because metadata are sparse) and then separate the poetry or 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ctional text from tables of con-tents, ads, running heads, and prefaces.
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57350 \u57347 
\f0 \cf3  Whenever possible, I also corrected optical transcription errors (so hiftory becomes history) and normalized spelling to modern British practice (so color becomes colour, physick becomes physic, and to- day becomes today).\'94 (182)\
\
\'93I
\b \cf3  am con
\f1\b0 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0\b \cf3 dent that there are still thousands of er-rors in my data, both in the texts and in the metadata
\b0 \cf3 . I know, for instance, that a small fraction of books I have listed as 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 c-tion are really biographies or travel writing. In chapters where I work with a few thousand volumes (
\f2 \cf3 2
\f0 \cf3  and 
\f2 \cf3 3
\f0 \cf3 ), I can groom the metadata manually to a fairly high standard, but it isn\'92t possible to do that for the hundreds of thousands of books used in chap-ters 
\f2 \cf3 1
\f0 \cf3  and 
\f2 \cf3 4
\f0 \cf3 . 
\b \cf3 Research on that scale is about measuring error, not eliminating it.
\b0 \cf3 \'94 (182)\
\
\'93Of course, this also raises the bar for signi
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 cant criticism. Having gone to great lengths to make it possible for skeptics to prove me wrong, I think it is fair to expect that they actually do so. When an author has shared code and voluminous data, it is no longer enough to draw up a list of scattered errors and omissions that might\'97 who knows?\'97 have altered the book\'92s conclusions. Armed with the author\'92s code, a critic who 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nds a genuinely consequential over-sight should be able to take the next step and demonstrate that it was in fact consequential.I fully expect that to happen: this book will turn out to be wrong on some topics. 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 \cf3 e goal of experimental inquiry is not to get everything right the 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 rst time but to advance knowledge in a way that invites further testing and re
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nement. In fact, if long arcs of literary change are as hard to perceive as I have claimed, then I ought to have misunderstood them in some way.\'94 (183)\
\
\'93I also know that the data I have shared will need to be im-proved by other hands. In writing this book, I was divided be-tween two goals. I wanted to work with publicly available texts and build data sets that could be borrowed by other researchers. But 
\b \cf3 I was also concerned not to repeat an error that I think has stalled quantitative scholarship in the past: a preoccupation with precision so meticulous that researchers end up correcting texts,  / perfecting markup, and in general laying groundwork for an in-de
\f2\b0 \cf3 fi
\f0\b \cf3 nite future instead of actually making an impact on the 
\f2\b0 \cf3 fi
\f0\b \cf3 eld of literary history.
\b0 \cf3  So, while I spent years correcting this data, I stopped as soon as it became good enough to answer the broad questions about change envisioned in this book. Scholars who want to address di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent questions may need to further enrich and correct my data sets or develop their own.\'94 (183-4)\
\'93I am not sure that I struck the right compromise between the imperatives to produce data for others and to advance my own immediate thesis. But I do feel con
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 dent that a compromise of some kind is necessary. 
\b \cf3 We need to keep improving digital collections. But in order to motivate that work, we also need to show that our collections, as they stand, are already capable of address-ing important questions.
\b0 \cf3 \'94 (184)\
\
\'93
\b \cf3 the point of numbers in social science is not to impose determinism but to acknowledge uncertainty.
\b0 \cf3 \'94 (186)\
\
\'93statistics didn\'92t be-come useful for us [i.e., humanists] until rather late in the game.\'94 (187-88) \'97 humanists didn\'92t adopt 2-3 variable stats because that didn\'92t help with our problems.\
\
\'93
\b \cf3 Instead of envision-ing the modeling process as directly 
\f2\b0 \cf3 fi
\f0\b \cf3 tting and representing a simpler structure underlying the data, it makes more sense to acknowledge that we are selecting a model that makes accurate predictions, without any proof that the inner workings of the model mirror deep structures in the world.
\b0 \cf3 \'94 (190)\
\
\'93I do want to push back against a rhetorical turn, common on both sides of this debate, that tends to exag-gerate the enigmatic and opaque character of predictive models.\'94 (190)\
\'93More fundamentally, the whole premise of a 
\i \cf3 choice
\i0 \cf3  between prediction and explanation may be phantasmic in 
\f2 \cf3 fi
\f0 \cf3 elds like the humanities where we have never possessed simple explanatory models. \'85 in the humanities, we have rarely produced streamlined explanations of any kind\'97 and certainly not simple mathemati-cal equations. So it is not entirely clear that \'93prediction versus explanation\'94 is a real trade- o
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3  for us, or a painful choice. In fact, for many humanistic questions, winnowing the variables to iden-/tify a few key factors is not even an interesting goal. For instance, it is not especially hard to 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 nd the key variable that distinguishes masculine and feminine characters in 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 ction. Hint: they are de-scribed with di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent pronouns. \'94(191-2)\
\'93
\b \cf3 I often encounter arguments about quantitative method that seem to be founded on an implicit hierarchy of cognitive tasks, where mere pattern recognition is easy, prediction may be more interesting, but explanation is the real prize. I don\'92t think that hierarchy holds up well in historical disciplines, since historical patterns are not easy to perceive and it is not safe to assume that they have a single explanation.
\b0 \cf3 \'94 (192)\
\
\'93
\b \cf3 So the primary workhorse of this book has been regularized logistic regression.
\b0 \cf3  
\f2 \cf3 Th
\f0 \cf3 is algorithm is widely used for text clas-si
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 cation and has an accuracy closely comparable to SVMs. But it also works in an intuitive way that is relatively easy to explain. Most crucially, it excels at calibrating its degree of con
\f2 \cf3 fi
\f0 \cf3 dence about di
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 \cf3 erent observations, which is a feature I used heavily in the illustrations for chapters 
\f2 \cf3 2
\f0 \cf3  and 
\f2 \cf3 3
\f0 \cf3 .\'94 (193)\
\
\'93Examining the 
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 gures in chap-ter 
\f2 \cf3 2
\f0 \cf3  and chapter 
\f2 \cf3 3
\f0 \cf3 , a reader may notice that models of genre have volumes clustering near the top and bottom of the image, whereas models of literary prestige have volumes sprinkled more evenly across the space. 
\b \cf3 Fundamentally, this is because prestige is harder to model than genre.
\b0 \cf3  So the best models of prestige end / up needing a lot of regularization and have relatively low con
\f1 \cf3 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 \cf3 -dence on average.\'94 (195-6)\
\
\'93
\b \cf3 Having attempted to reproduce the result, so far without success, I am tentatively skeptical about the importance attributed to conditional entropy in Algee- Hewitt et al., \'93Canon/Archive.\'94
\b0 \cf3 \'94 (196)}