{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Smith\'92s publishing career began in 1784 and continued until her death in 1806.   Our baseline list of \'93all works published by Smith,\'94 against which we can compare each resource, includes 47 editions of her works published in her lifetime or in the year immediately following her {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8C6278E3-4ACF-44D5-AC80-E511D2424876"}}{\fldrslt death}}, as indicated in Table {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://51B707FC-F099-40C5-8360-BFA236E125D5"}}{\fldrslt <$n#table:CSmith-4dbs>.}} None of the four databases includes all 47 of these works. The most interesting exclusions occur earlier and later in Smith\'92s publishing career. The first edition of her immensely influential 
\i Elegiac Sonnets
\i0  (1784), for example, is listed in the ESTC but not available in facsimile anywhere. The publications in the last years of her life, occurring after 1800, are excluded from the chronological focus of most resources but can still appear in HathiTrust. Of particular interest is the fact that 
\i Beachy Head
\i0 , which is now one of Smith\'92s most frequently anthologized and taught poems, does not appear in a single digital database. None of these inclusions or exclusions represent an agenda against (or for) Smith, or indeed an interpretive choice at all, but they nonetheless shape the disciplinary infrastructure. Figure <$n#fig:CSmith-4dbs-alluvial> shows smaller and smaller databases winnowing down her full output arbitrarily. What, then, is not selected for preservation?}