{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Chapter two \cf3 describes in more detail the databases to be studied, and \cf2 examines Charlotte Smith and the ways that her writing is made accessible today. \cf0 The specific experimentation undertaken in chapter two tests the basic assumptions and methods of my project. \cf3 I begin with a the histories of the ESTC, ECCO, ECCO-TCP, Project Gutenberg, Google Books, and HathiTrust: highlighting the chronological relationships between these resources can explain each database\'92s scope and technical implementation. Each new resource must contend with the possibility of either competing or collaborating with those which have come before. Examining materials like the meeting minutes and internal communications of these resources\'92 early histories will show how those which currently enjoy the lowest reputation among scholars \'97 Project Gutenberg and Google Books \'97 defined their initial scope around an explicit rejection of scholarly norms. After establishing the history of each resource\'92s development, I describe its current digital infrastructure, through the lens of critical algorithm studies. This begins with basic questions: what file formats does it use? What kinds of metadata, what ontologies? How does it make its materials available for use? Through close reading and comparison of these details, I articulate each database\'92s implicit construction of what a text is and what it is for. Combining each resource\'92s history with its technical infrastructure, I return to \
Having established these databases as objects of study, \cf0 I identify what subset of Smith\'92s works each corpus contains, as a concrete example to compare their holdings overall. Smith\'92s 
\i Elegiac Sonnets
\i0 , for example, are not included in the ECCO-TCP corpus (which is the one most often used for text mining research) \'97 only 
\i Celestina
\i0  and 
\i The Emigrants
\i0  are included. Why these two texts? And what text mining research based on ECCO-TCP might have found slightly different answers if Smith\'92s sonnets had been included? As a related test of comparison between databases, for each database which provides access to the actual text of Smith\'92s works, I compare the textual similarity of 
\i Celestina
\i0  and 
\i The Emigrants.
\i0  What editorial choices are being made? How 
\i much
\i0  worse is the OCR text than the transcribed text? Another key concept I will explore through Smith is the role of reprints. HathiTrust, for example, includes multiple editions of 
\i Elegiac Sonnets
\i0 . How reliable and effective are its distinctions between editions? How do the databases I examine handle multiple editions of a single work? I am particularly interested in how reprints can be incorporated into our understanding of what literature is \'93of\'94 a particular decade: what does it mean to think of 
\i Elegiac Sonnets
\i0 , initially printed in the 1780s, as \'931790s literature\'94?\cf3  \cf0 Finally, having surveyed my six databases with the help of Smith, I discuss the multiple \'93Smiths\'94 which emerge, and what it means to attempt to unify her disparate works.}