{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Begun in 2009, Phase II both shrank and expanded the scope of EEBO TCP.  Selection became more discriminating and focused more on English-language (and Welsh- and Gaelic-language) texts to the exclusion of French and Latin titles, and also set aside the serials (periodicals) as a fit project for another time. But within the constraints of English-language monographic titles, it aspired to something approaching comprehensive treatment: EEBO Phase II planned to convert each and every unique work in Early English Books Online (usually the first edition), or an estimated total of around 45,000 books on top of the 25,000 completed in Phase I. This was an ambitious, and always risky, goal. As it happened, enough institutions joined Phase II to fund the completion of about 40,000 titles, of which about 35,000 have been released to date, the remainder slowly working their way through the production pipeline. (TCP \'93EEBO\'94)\
\'93As of 2019, the total number of books available in Phase II came to 34,963, with a further release of several thousand additional titles tentatively scheduled for later in the year.  Short of an infusion of new funding, or the adoption of a new production model, this should bring the active work of the TCP to at least an interim conclusion.\'94 (TCP \'93EEBO\'94)\cf3 \
\
\'93Because of these greater challenges facing ECCO-TCP, it is perhaps better described as a proof of concept than as a completed project. With the support of more than 35 libraries, the TCP keyed, encoded, edited, and released 2,473 ECCO-TCP texts. A further tranche of 628 texts was keyed and encoded but never fully proofed or edited. The texts in this group remain useful for many purposes, however, and bring the total of ECCO-TCP texts to over 3,000. In cooperation with Gale Cengage, these texts have been made freely available to the public.\'94 (TCP, \'93Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO) TCP\'94)}