{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 All of the computational work in this dissertation aims to identify, in as minute detail as possible, all works printed in England between January 1 1789 and December 31 1799. This eleven-year \'93decade\'94 was a turbulent one across the Channel, encompassing the whole of the French Revolution, from the Estates General in 1789 to Napoleon\'92s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://927EF42B-036A-4400-B9BD-002CB7D5E9A3"}}{\fldrslt coup in 1799.}} In England, these events caused strong and variously nationalist reactions in a country which had so recently lost its colonies in America and feared that a French invasion could come at any moment. This is the decade of 
\i Common Sense
\i0 , it is the decade of 
\i Lyrical Ballads
\i0 ; it is the decade of Hannah More, it is the decade of Ann Radcliffe; it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness; it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity. Charles Dickens\'92 now\cf2  \cf0 famous superlatives capture the tension often seen by scholars between \'91Enlightenment\'92 modes of writing and \'91Romantic\'92 or \'91Gothic\'92 modes\cf2 , which are no longer neatly periodized as mutually exclusive\cf0 .\
Scholarship on 18thC works often takes the form of evaluating or assigning the cultural capital of individual works, or, perhaps, analyzing the strategies by which they accrue or fail to accrue that capital. The winners of the cultural capital game are the Romantics in poetry and Walter Scott in prose. For example, Simon Bainbridge examines the decade and its poetry through the lens of war to identify \'93the attempts made by several writers to fill the role of national bard prior to Scott\'94 (3). Both poetry and the poet, in his conception, are pursuing a particular kind of cultural capital that allows them to rise above their own popularity. Richard Cronin\'92s 
\i The Politics of Romantic Poetry
\i0  and Robert Miles\'92 \cb3 [WHICHEVER ONE IT IS]\cb1 , too, seem to treat Scott\'92s \cb3 [intensely serious popular romances]\cb1  as the teleological end of the late eighteenth century birth development within the novel. These works follow a pattern established from the beginning with \cb3 [Kiely and Tompkins]\cb1 , of treating the novel as synonymous with the realist novel, and treating Romantic and especially Gothic novels as aberrations in the history of the novel, a problem which needs to be explained away. E.J. Clery\'92s 
\i The Rise of Supernatural Fiction
\i0  has examined at length the historical conditions by which supernatural plot elements began to make limited claims to literary seriousness throughout the eighteenth century. The \'93rise\'94 she describes is not an increase in volume and prominence of supernatural stories, since her starting point in 1762 (the Cock Lane ghost) is a major national phenomenon with many imitators. Rather, supernatural fiction \'91rises\'92 when it acquires cultural legitimacy. Michael Gamer has more recently expanded on how this \'91rise\'92 fuelled Romanticism\'92s own rise. Gamer, like Bainbridge and Cronin, primarily examines Wordsworth and the \'91winners\'92 of the struggle for cultural capital: I, like Clery, am more interested in the \'91losers.\'92 Accordingly, I attend to much that is 
\i not
\i0  literature, in order to better understand why it is not.}