{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
1976 Proposal for an eighteenth-century short title catalogue. Cataloguing on the Eighteenth-Century Short Title Catalogue (18thC STC) begins in earnest from around 1978.\
1981 British Library signs contract with Research Publications (RPI) to microfilm its eighteenth-century books based on the 18thC STC. Microfilming and production on the collection, called The Eighteenth Century, begins in 1982.\
1987 18thC STC cataloguing expanded to include pre-1700 material.\
1987\'968 Microfilming operation expanded.\
1994 The 18thC STC renamed the English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC).\
1995 RPI becomes Primary Source Media (PSM).\
1996 Thomson Learning decides to begin digitising its collections.\
1998 PSM, Information Access Company, and Gale Research merge to form Gale Group, part of Thomson Learning.\
1998 ProQuest launches Early English Books Online (EEBO).\
1999 Text Creation Partnership (TCP) formed.\
2000 ECCO digitisation begins.\
2001\'962 Gale Group becomes Thomson-Gale.\
2003\'964 Eighteenth Century Collections Online published.\
2004\'9610 TCP schedule for transcribing and publishing ECCO-TCP texts.\
2006\'969 UK organisation Jisc purchases ECCO files under license. 2007 Thomson Group sells Thomson Learning to private equity firms and it is renamed Cengage Learning. Gale becomes an imprint of Cengage.\
2007 Cross-search with EEBO added to interface.\
2009 ECCO II publishes more than 46,000 extra titles from scans done between 2003 and 2009. Subject field added. Optical character recognition (OCR) software replaced. ESTC and ECCO metadata enhanced by adding Library of Congress subject headings.\
2010 End of microfilming programme.\
2010 BiblioLife produces print-on-demand copies of ECCO titles.\
2010 18thConnect website launched.\
2011 Jisc Historic Books platform launched.\
2011 TCP releases c.2,200 ECCO-TCP texts.\
2014 Jisc Historic Books redesigned and relaunched as Historical\
Texts.\
2014 Gale launches \'91Textual Data Analysis\'92 hard drives.\
2015 Gale offers an additional ECCO interface option called\
Artemis.\
2016 Artemis renamed Gale Primary Sources.\
2019 Gale Digital Scholar Lab (beta) platform launched.\
2020 Gale begins digitising a further c.90,000 books for future\
publication as ECCO III.\
2020 Original \'91stand-alone\'92 ECCO interface scheduled to be turned\
off.}