{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red236\green184\blue255;\red254\green217\blue206;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c94500\c78400\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c88200\c84300;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 There is a tension underlying the study of a female Gothic, which Yael Shapira articulates in her review of Diana Wallace\'92s ambitious 
\i Female Gothic Histories
\i0 : \'93The very continuity that allows us to call this body of writing a \'91tradition\'92 raises issues of interpretive method: how do we analyze women\'92s writing that, over such a long period of time, repeatedly turns to the same set of conventions \'97 conventions that, moreover, involve female suffering and fear \'97 without collapsing different authors and their varied aesthetic achievements into an essentialist view of gender and into a single narrative of female victimhood?\'94 (Shapira 191). Shapira dubs this \'93the tension between historicist and universalist approaches to women\'92s Gothic\'94 (191), both of which have much of value to contribute. This tension overlaps that between definitions focused on the representation of gender within texts, and definitions focused on the biographical gender of their authors: that is, between female writing and women\'92s writing. Study of the early Gothic can easily conflate the two. The \'93obviously\'94 female-associated phenomenon of Gothic excess led to the critical category of the \'93Female Gothic\'94 to discuss narratives of women in patriarchal distress. Ellen Ledoux lists off the standard requirements: \'93a distressed heroine, domestic incarceration, threats of sexual violence, anxiety about monstrous or absent mothers,\'94 and \'93economic disenfranchisement\'94 (2). A definition based on the theme of female persecution enabled work like Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar\'92s 
\i Madwoman in the Attic
\i0  (1979), Kate Ferguson Ellis\'92s 
\i The Contested Castle
\i0  (1989), Eugenia DeLamotte\'92s 
\i Perils of the Night
\i0  (1990), and Helene Meyers\'92s 
\i Femicidal Fears
\i0  (2001) to examine specifically female experiences of the threats of patriarchy, and to take their literary depictions seriously. As their titles show, these works \cb2 [pursue [individual kinds of fears/themes/motifs] / use the particularity of [motifs?] \cb3 thematic \'93continuities that seem to transcend historical difference\'94 (Shapira 191) \cb2 to tie texts together.]\cb1  Concurrently, a definition based on female authorship enables Juliann Fleenor\'92s 
\i The Female Gothic
\i0  (1983), Diane Long Hoeveler\'92s
\i  Gothic Feminism
\i0  (1998), Emma Clery\'92s 
\i Women\'92s Gothic
\i0  (2000), and Donna Heiland\'92s 
\i Gothic and Gender
\i0  (2004)\cb2  [to turn their attention to gender itself / make claims on the scale of gender.] [These can get expansive in scope, as in Pickering and Chatto\'92s 5-volume series Varieties of Female Gothic (2002) or Avril Horner\'92s and Sue Zlosnik\'92s Edinburgh Companion on Women and the Gothic (2016), which [indeed grapple with variety]] [I am not the first, therefore, to distinguish between female gothic and women\'92s gothic] [I follow this latter set of footsteps more closely, beginning with women and then asking if what they wrote matches what we expect from female writing (make clear that I still approve of female gothic work)] [My own work is women\'92s gothic and historicist? My work seeks to see whether women\'92s gothic and female gothic do diverge?]\cb1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The long history and continuing use of the Female Gothic framework stands in a striking contrast to the dearth of work on the Male Gothic. Even though the Gothic is a context in which men are assumed to be famously outnumbered, the status of \'93male\'94 as a cultural default means their works are \'93unmarked\'94 or assumed to be defined by things other than gender. The Female Gothic is often treated as synonymous with the explained supernatural, or the \'91terror\'92 mode in the terror/horror distinction, but no terminology is used for the \'91unexplained supernatural,\'92 and horror works by men are called \'91horror\'92, rather than Male Gothic. The few explicit identifications of a male mode of writing begin with the female and define the male as its lack or opposite. Ellen Ledoux, for example, in the context of attaching the Female Gothic to \'93the \'91explained supernatural style,\'92\'94 adds a definition for the Male Gothic, \'93in which ghosts, devils and other supernatural phenomena demand a willful suspension of disbelief from the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9B453CFC-BBBD-4FB7-AD0A-7C534DEF9D19"}}{\fldrslt reader.\'94}} David Richter provides definitions based on plot structures: \'93The \'91female Gothic\'92 is \'85 a melodrama arousing sympathy and suspense through the unwarranted persecution of an innocent. The \'91male Gothic\'92 is a punitive tragedy\'85in which we are made both to desire and to expect the condign punishment of the central {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A7CA2735-C352-41B1-975D-2A3BA0BBEC72"}}{\fldrslt figure.\'94}} Even when scholars take the male gothic seriously at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9A1833FB-3F0D-445D-8BDD-8BBD5FC35C45"}}{\fldrslt length,}} the male gothic must have its female binary opposite; it cannot be defined on its own {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3ACA558B-2B73-44AF-B9E6-CCB8162F947B"}}{\fldrslt terms.}}\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Work that complicates our image the Female Gothic \'97 like work that challenges the conventional image of Radcliffean imitators \'97  is not new. Almost as soon as the term came into use, scholars have been pushing against its boundaries, grappling with the true diversity of women\'92s Gothic {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://50C31698-DF79-41CC-9CB6-8E8AD8BBEBA9"}}{\fldrslt writing}}. Nonetheless, however, even as Gothic studies grew more complex in other ways, this definition offered something useful in identifying and providing vocabulary for a particular set of texts, so it has been impressively stable. The terms \'93Female Gothic\'94 and \'93women\'92s gothic\'94 are both in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2C5BDAC5-3604-44AC-B289-EA02DEF930DD"}}{\fldrslt currency}}. Ledoux argues persuasively that \'93the category \'91Female Gothic\'92 more accurately reflects the ideological goals of second-wave feminist literary criticism than it represents the narratives of early women Gothic {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A8722801-D05C-4BA7-AF17-241D72012A4C"}}{\fldrslt writers.\'94}} Despite many scholars\'92 work showing that \'93women\'92s early Gothic writing\'97 a great deal of which is only accessible to us because of the recovery work of feminist scholars\'97is much more aesthetically, politically, thematically, and generically diverse than the Female Gothic categorization suggests,\'94 and despite ongoing critical work to refine the term Female Gothic, she finds that \'93its usage has limited the ways in which scholars approach women\'92s Gothic {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://29C13AFE-72B1-4AE3-9762-B44E7620C15C"}}{\fldrslt writing.\'94}} Ledoux set out to \'93to explain why the discrepancy between available primary textual material and textual analysis exists and how it came to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A282CC44-E74A-4BB4-967A-91C338BBC424"}}{\fldrslt be,\'94}} a task which she accomplishes successfully through a carefully close-read history of nineteenth and twentieth century literary politics.}