{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This provoked William Molyneux\'92s influential 
\i Case of Ireland 
\i0 (1698), which reached a tenth edition by 1782.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf2 \up10 11 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \up0 Molyneux\'92s book was a protest against metropolitan policies, fashioned into a federal interpretation of the regal union. Ireland, he insisted, was equal in status to England, a \'91separate and distinct kingdom\'92 with its own supreme parliament, not subject to English jurisdiction. Although Molyneux\'92s book has sometimes been interpreted as a textbook of \'91colonial nationalism\'92, he was no modern \'91nationalist\'92, having no interest in cultural identity or in breaking the regal connection. As a member of the Protestant settler \'91Ascendancy\'92, he ignored the Catholic majority of Ireland, who did not begin to find their own patriot voice until the 1750s, in Charles O\'92Connor\'92s writings. Molyneux took for granted a common inheritance of ancestral English liberties \'91enjoyed under the crown of England for above five hundred years\'92. In fact, he was not necessarily averse to an incorporating union as a solution to Ireland\'92s unequal treatment, a union by which Irish members would be elected to an imperial parliament in London, provided that such a union would indeed bring full economic equality. This was a case more fully explored in Henry Maxwell\'92s 
\i Essay towards an Union of Ireland with England 
\i0 (1703). Much later, when the Irish parliament did achieve considerably greater autonomy, Molyneux\'92s remark in favour of full union was suppressed in the edition of his book published in 1782. 
\fs24 \
}