{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 In other words, Gamer and Taylor both affirm the key conclusion of John Guillory\'92s 
\i Cultural Capital: The Problem of Literary Canon Formation
\i0 , that \'93in fact \'91aesthetic value\'92 is nothing more or other than cultural capital\cf2 \'94\cf0  (332). Guillory\'92s sociological history of literary canons is a well\cf3  \cf0 established part of literary studies, which will take on new dimensions as I apply \cf2 it\cf0  to the current moment of digital databases. In the eighteenth century, he argues, the cultural capital of vernacular English literature is defined by its use within the school system to enable and restrict social mobility. English vernacular literature first begins to accumulate cultural capital in middle-class schools where it is \'93a substitute for the study of Greek and Latin, but with the same object of producing a linguistic sign of social distinction\'94 (97) that would allow readers to improve and signify their social standing. The public re-assessment of literature \cf2 as \cf0 described by Gamer and Taylor is, for Guillory, \'93the first crisis in the status of the vernacular canon, the problem of assimilating new vernacular genres such as the novel\'94 (xi), which seem in danger of affording too much social mobility by offering too little literary distinction for social {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://552EFC6D-A960-4145-9793-DC31A2188A06"}}{\fldrslt elites.}} The \'91solution\'92 is institutionalization, in which \'93the school becomes the exclusive agent for the dissemination of High Canonical works,\'94 and therefore, he argues, \'93the prestige of literary works as cultural capital is assessed according to the limit of their dissemination, their relative exclusivity\'94 (133). Under this system, \'91serious\'92 literature may not be identifiable linguistically, but it can still be identifiable by the difficulty of accessing it. This history of canonization has important implications for the field of literary study. As Guillory himself insists, if the aesthetic value of a text is determined by the social operations of class, it {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://65052170-EC5B-4E0B-BC68-744396E71125"}}{\fldrslt undermines the notion of literature itself as a category of writing distinguishable in aesthetic terms from non-literary writing}}. Guillory\'92s book is motivated by the canon debates of the 1990s, which were driven by an urgent re-valuation of literature by women and people of colour{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D6F75B37-83C6-47FE-A595-8DC41259F37A"}}{\fldrslt .}} His response insists that it is untenable to conceive of the problem in terms of increasing the \'91representation\'92 of individual works or authors within existing systems. Instead, for Guillory problem lies in the institutionalization of literature itself. \'93If literary criticism is ever to conceptualize a new disciplinary domain,\'94 he says, embedding his prescription in that \'93if,\'94 \'93it will have to undertake first a much more thorough reflection on the historical category of literature; otherwise I suggest that new critical movements will continue to register their agendas symptomatically, by ritually overthrowing a continually resurgent literariness and literary canon\'94 (265). In other words, assigning the cultural capital of \'93literature\'94 to different works cannot change the underlying system{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3B391EB5-F602-4A91-B59C-4459443344D4"}}{\fldrslt .
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}}}