{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 My random sample suggested a 1794 Liverpool edition 8p. ;  12\uc0\u8304 . This particular version of the ballad has not been digitized, but I located five other copies in ECCO from the 1790s:\
CW0117256783 N.p., [1790?] 1 sheet : ill. ; obl.1/2\'b0\
CB0126648281 S.n., [1790?] 8p. ; 8\'b0 (adds The Chimney Sweeper)\
CB0127621441 [s.n.], Printed in the year 1796 8p. ; 12\'b0 (adds Johnny Coup)\
CB0127895166 [Edinburgh? : s.n.], 1799. 8p. : ill. ; 12\'b0 (adds Johnny Coup)\
CB0126649552 Edinburgh : Printed by J. Morren, [1800?]. 8p. : ill. ; 12\'b0 (adds The Yorkshire Beauty)\
\
Of these, four seem similar in format to the 1794 Liverpool edition, being eight duodecimo pages. All four of these 8p 12\uc0\u8304  editions include another ballad after Babes. They also all include illustrations on the first pace (though only 2 of the 4 have the illustration mentioned in the collocation). I therefore suspect that the 1794 Liverpool edition also likely includes a second ballad, and an illustration.\
\
6783 and 5166/1441 and 8281 and 9552 are all distinct from each other, with many minor variations in wording throughout and different stanza breaks.\
The \'93told his wife\'94 line is distinctive\'97\
6783: \'93Then told his wife and all he had,\'94\
8281: \'93And told his wife, and all he had,\'94\
1441: \'93He told his wife and all his friends\'94\
5166: \'93He told his wife and all his friends,\'94\
9552: \'93He told his wife and children all,\'94\
\
5166 and 1441 
\i almost
\i0  appear to be using the identical type (tho with different title & text decoration at the top of the ballad) but looking more closely, the difference in comma on the wife line suggests that 5166 is a new typesetting but it is based on a copy of 1441.\
These both add Johnny Coup as a the second ballad but the two Johnnies are NOT identical; different title & decoration, and also 5166 squeezes an extra stanza onto the first page of Johnny (but then DOESN\'92T repeat the chorus at the end?). The title page illustration also differs \'97 a similar image of a man on an ox (??) but not the same woodblock, 5166 is perhaps a rough mirrored copy of 1441?\
\
ESTC offers a \'91uniform title\'92 of \'93Children in the wood; or the Norfolk gentleman\'92s last will and testament\'94 for the ballad.}