{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Table <$n#table:Smith-4dbs> shows data that I compiled by hand in Numbers. The first three columns are based on my synthesis of scholarship on Charlotte Smith. As I consulted a range of work on Smith, I updated this information to reflect the most complete and accurate information possible. My editorial decisions included, for example, the exclusion of 
\i D\'92Arcy
\i0  from consideration, since it was never published in England. I introduced standardized titles for the two volumes of 
\i Elegiac Sonnets
\i0 , retroactively naming the initial publication \'93volume 1\'94 to distinguish it from the second volume which would appear 13 years later, so that each title has its own edition count. The next four columns represent the results of my queries in the ESTC, ECCO, ECCO-TCP, and HathiTrust databases. I searched each database with several queries to locate Smith\'92s works, beginning (where possible) by finding all works categorized under her authorship, and then searching individual titles of works. This figure shows the simplified results from a more detailed spreadsheet, which also includes links to the records themselves where they exist, and notes on how the records are encoded (e.g., multiple volumes or all as one volume.) Simplifying inclusion down to a boolean yes/no involved some editorial decisions. If only 
\i part
\i0  of a work was included (as in HathiTrust\'92s record for the first edition of 
\i Celestina
\i0 , which only includes volumes 3 and 4), I recorded that as a \'93yes.\'94 If a work was only included in its Dublin edition (as in HathiTrust\'92s record for 
\i Desmond
\i0 ), I recorded that as a \'93no.\'94 These searches were conducted in February 2020.}