{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl520\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 One of the uncomfortable questions implicit in computational literary study is a particular kind of scrutiny of methodology: what is it, exactly, that literary study 
\i does
\i0 ? It it really \'93research\'94 or \'93a method\'94 to read a lot of things, think about them, and then tell each other stories about our thoughts? Ted Underwood proposes in 
\i Distant Horizons
\i0  that the primary research output in literary study is, at its core, narratives. Effective literary criticism has protagonists-- whether these are texts, cultural forces, or critical camps-- which the critic narrates through some kind of conflict, to reach a final meaning that the reader will find moving. Underwood identifies the narrative drive as a reason that computational literary analysis sometimes finds a frosty reception (computational scholarship often fails to provide satisfactory narratives), but the role of storytelling in literary criticism has stakes beyond computation. Eve Sedgwick\'92s critique, in \'93Paranoid Reading and Reparative Reading,\'94 is fundamentally a critique of a particular story critics tell, as are more recent debates about critique and postcritique. The \'93surface reading\'94 of Sharon Marcus and Stephen Best, or the \'93rich description\'94 of Heather Love, are not really about how a scholar reads or researches a text; they are about the rhetorical moves employed in the subsequent explication of the text, after the research itself has been complete. As such, although debates about critique and postcritique have sometimes been termed \'93method wars,\'94 in DH circles the debate is barely legible 
\i as
\i0  a debate, and certainly not legible as a debate about 
\i method
\i0 .
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 In February 2021, Sheila Liming\'92s article \'93Fighting Words\'94 in the 
\i Los Angeles Review of Books
\i0  caused a minor stir on Twitter, jokingly referred to as \'93the method wars\'94 (taking up a term from Rita Felski\'92s 2015 monograph 
\i The Limit of Critique
\i0 ). In DH circles, the discussion inspired a patronizing bemusement, as in Quinn Dombrowski\'92s comment that they are \'93So very happy that this Methods War seems to be happening mostly outside my TL, and appears not to be some massive DH showdown of TEI vs NLP, pro- vs anti- topic modeling, hack vs yack, or any of the things that I imagine when I think of \'91Methods Wars\'92.\'94 Underwood replied that \'93when literary critics say \'91methods\'92 they actually mean \'91conclusions.\'92\'94 Underwood\'92s tweet is, of course, partly inflammatory for rhetorical effect, but the genuine puzzlement among DH scholars about critique reflects a real disciplinary disagreement about what makes for \'93a method.\'94
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Narratives are not, in themselves, the problem: saying that a piece of scholarship constructs a narrative is another way of saying that it organizes information in a way that creates meaning. This is, in fact, desirable. For example, Eugenia Zuroski\'92s 
\i A Taste for China
\i0  follows and explains figures like \'93China,\'94 \'93things Chinese,\'94 \'93English identity,\'94 and \'93orientalism.\'94 Some individual characters take on prominent roles in this narrative: [EXAMPLES OF PEOPLE] and, in the fine tradition of eighteenth century \'93it\'94 narratives, [SPECIFIC PIECES OF CHINA]. But the core narrative is really a story about the characters it calls \'93English identity\'94 and \'93orientalism.\'94 [SUMMARIZE BOOK: \'93offers an account of how literature of the long eighteenth century generated a model of English selfhood dependent on figures of China. It shows how various genres of writing in this period call upon \'93things Chinese\'94 to define the tasteful English subject of modernity. Chinoiserie is no mere exotic curiosity in this culture, but a potent, multivalent sign of England\'92s participation in a cosmopolitan world order. By the end of the eighteenth century, not only are English homes filled with it, but so too are English selves.\'94] The many kinds of texts Zuroski consults have become meaningful because they create a narrative.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Similarly, when Andrew Piper studies generalization as a defining practice in literary study, generalization itself is not the problem. Piper defines generalization as \'93the rhetorical strategy whereby we move from partial evidence to knowledge claims about some larger group or category\'94 (1). Acquiring knowledge about some broader phenomenon is generally the purpose of gathering evidence in the first place. Where Underwood and Piper begin to distance themselves (and distant reading) from undesirable forms of literary criticism, they object to narratives and generalizations that are inadequate for the evidence at hand.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Underwood\'92s objection is more narrow. Most literary criticism, he says, frames literary change in terms of of generational or periodized revolutions in taste, obfuscating more gradual and long-term developments: \'93we have narrated literary history as a sequence of discrete movements and periods because chunks of that size are about as much of the past as a single person could remember and discuss at one time. Apparently, longer arcs of change have been hidden from us by their sheer scale\'94 (
\i Distant Horizons
\i0  ix) \'93it is worth teasing out the assumptions implied by these succession stories\'97 which are not dominant, after all, in every corner of the university. Many disciplines tell their own stories instead as a cumulative process of expansion. \'85 Literary scholars, by contrast, commonly do assume that critical approaches are locked in dialectical struggle. And this assumption is not arbitrary: the premise has been correct for much of our history. Critical debates amount to struggles over a scarce resource\'97 readerly attention.\'94 (Underwood 1) \'93our enterprise seems to draw meaning from the pressure of limited attention: recovery projects become notable and important (rather than merely additive) when they argue that new discoveries force us to redefine an established concept like Romanticism\'94 (2)
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Piper\'92s diagnosis of methodological norms in literature is less willing to embrace narrative enjoyment as a valid aim. In 
\i Can We Be Wrong? The Problem of Textual Evidence in a Time of Data
\i0 , Piper distant-reads, not literature, but literary criticism, alongside research in history and sociology. He identifies frequent and broad generalization as a distinctive rhetorical feature of literary study, and expresses concern about what he sees as \'93an inverse relationship between the scale of claims and scope of evidence provided\'94 (71), in which \'93rhetoric stands in for evidence\'94 and \'93interestingness becomes true (or the truth is only valued because it is interesting)\'94 (16). \'93Where literary studies focuses the most on the \'93modern,\'94 history works with the \'93century,\'94 and sociology attends to the \'93year.\'94\'94 (71) \'93Generalizations serve as unproven and untested evidentiary shorthands to justify interpretive conclusions that have not been rigorously subject to scrutiny.\'94 (72)
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 [I actually think there\'92s something here about how distant reading is developing its own set of methodological norms and priorities which might diverge from literature; rather than merging with/adding to literature (and saving flagging departments with fashionable DH grants) it could distinguish itself ever more strongly from literature (for a much more disappointing Nader effect)]
\f1\fs24 \
}