{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi240\sl280\sa60\qj

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sir William, whose greatest pleasure was in doing good, now looked round with a countenance open as the sun, and 
\b saw nothing but joy in the looks of all except that of my daughter Sophia, who, for some reasons we could not comprehend, did not seem perfectly satisfied
\b0 . \'91I think now,\'92 cried he, with a smile, \'91that all the company, except one or two, seem perfectly happy. There only remains an act of justice for me to do.
\b  You are sensible, Sir,\'92 continued he, turning to me, \'91of the obligations we both owe Mr Jenkinson. And it is but just we should both reward him for it. Miss Sophia will, I am sure, make him very happy, and he shall have from me five hundred pounds as her fortune, and upon this I am sure they can live very comfortably together. Come, Miss Sophia, what say you to this match of my making? Will you have him?\'92\'97My poor girl seemed almost sinking into her mother\'92s arms at the hideous proposal.\'97\'91Have him, Sir!\'92 cried she faintly. \'91No, Sir, never.\'92\'97\'91What,\'92 cried he again, \'91not have Mr Jenkinson, your benefactor, a handsome young fellow, with five hundred pounds and good expectations!\'92\'97\'91I beg, Sir,\'92 returned she, scarce able to speak, \'91that you\'92ll desist, and not make me so very wretched.\'92\'97\'91Was ever such obstinacy known,\'92 cried he again, \'91to refuse a man whom the family has such infinite obligations to, who has preserved your sister, and who has five hundred pounds! What not have him!\'92\'97\'91No, Sir, never,\'92 replied she, angrily, \'91I\'92d sooner die first.\'92\'97\'91If that be the case then,\'92 cried he, \'91if you will not have him\'97I think I must have you myself.\'92 And so saying, he caught her to his breast with ardour. \'91My loveliest, my most sensible of girls,\'92 cried he, \'91how could you ever think your own Burchell could deceive you, or that Sir William Thornhill could ever cease to admire a mistress that loved him for himself alone?}