{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 "In a word\'97without farther argument\'97if she obeys me in this, I will provide for her as my daughter during my life, and leave her a fortune at my death\'97but if she dares\'97"\
Sandford interrupted the menace prepared for utterance, saying, "and you still mean, I suppose, to make Mr. Rushbrook your heir?"\
"Have you not heard me say so? And do you imagine I have changed my determination? I am not given to alter my resolutions, Mr. Sandford; and I thought you knew I was not; besides, will not my title be extinct, whoever I make my heir? Could any thing but a son have preserved my title?"\
"Then it is yet possible\'97\'97"\
"By marrying again, you mean? No\'97no\'97I have had enough of marriage\'97and Henry Rushbrook I shall leave my heir. Therefore, Sir\'97\'97"\
"My Lord, I do not presume\'97"\
"Do not, Sandford, and we may still be good friends. But I am not to be controlled as formerly; my temper is\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl260\qr

\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf2 [Pg 191]\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj

\fs24 \cf2 \'a0changed of late; changed to what it was originally; till your religious precepts reformed it. You may remember, how troublesome it was, to conquer my stubborn disposition in my youth;\'a0
\i then
\i0 , indeed, you\'a0
\i did
\i0 ; but in my more advanced age, you will find the task too difficult."\
Sandford again repeated, "He should not presume\'97"\
To which Lord Elmwood again made answer, "Do not, Sandford;" and added, "for I have a sincere regard for you, and should be loath, at these years, to quarrel with you seriously."\
Sandford turned away his head to conceal his feelings.\
"Nay, if we do quarrel," resumed Lord Elmwood, "You know it must be your own fault; and as this is a theme the most likely of any, nay, the only one on which we can have a difference (such as we cannot forgive) take care never from this day to resume it; indeed that of itself, would be an offence I could not pardon. I have been clear and explicit in all I have said; there can be no fear of mistaking my meaning; therefore, all future explanation is unnecessary\'97nor will I permit a word, or a hint on the subject from any one, without shewing my resentment even to the hour of my death." He was going out of the room.}