{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c20000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Introduction:\
\
\'93This study will examine both the spectacle and the forces that shaped it. Examples of performance, drama and theatrical innovation will illustrate how public entertainment responded to the turbulence in the intellectual climate that sociopolitical changes induced, for, even though London did not suffer the traumas of Paris, it underwent a major cultural crisis.\'94 (1)\
\
p.2: When artists can no longer represent the world in coherent patterns, the recognition of which engenders in the viewer a sense of identification and reassurance with the familiar, they may resort to the use of metaphor. They may rework experience into weird and intriguing patterns that distance the audience from reality -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Although audiences were divided according to class between pit, box and gallery, all came to see the same shows, for within one programme there was a variety that not only satisfied the different groups but satisfied them all \'b1 mainpieces, comic or tragic; afterpieces, satirical, farcical, musical or spectacular; interludes of music, song and dance; the wit of prologue and epilogue and above all the attractions of the performers, all received plaudits from all corners of the house. Critics might make sharp comparisons, but little of the programme was dismissed as `trash', or `immoral', or irrelevant `fancy'.\up10  (3)
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \
p.3: Disagreement as to what is trash and what is treasure suggests cultural crisis, when values are put under question by social stress or political conflict. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.4: those on the `lower' margins of society had not yet found a distinctive voice; their discontent found safe and symbolic expression in rowdy games and festive sports -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.5: in the 1790s individual voices became shriller and their ideas more persuasive to a different section of the population, thus contributing to social fragmentation and creating what today we call `identity politics'. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.6: Politicians, philosophers and economists may have to hammer out rational interpretations of the seeming chaos of material reality, but for artists, and, more particularly, for their bewildered audiences, the naturalistic depiction of probability can seem inadequate. Only an evocation of the barely possible provides a satisfying response 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \up0 to the contradictions of a world which `self-evident' principles can no longer explain. 
\fs24 \

\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up10 -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 p.6: When analysing the statistics gathered for his invaluable work, Theatre, Opera, and Audiences in Revolutionary Paris, Emmet Kennedy argues that previous historians overstated the political content and in\uc0\u32 \u772 uence of the theatre during the Revolution.U -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\up0 \
p.6: although `uncommitted' plays far outnumbered those dealing with speci\'aecally political issues, his analyses of changes in emphasis and attitude show that the impact of events on theatrical taste was crucial \'b1 though indirect. Historians can fall into the same trap as political censors in trying to identify topics, stories and speeches that speci\'aecally refer to issues of the day, because the relationship is usually more subtle than speci\'aec precisely because it is unintentional. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\

\fs24 For instance, Pierre Desforges' Le Sourd, ou L'Auberge Pleine was the most popular French play of the period (1789\'b199), a comedy in which a man pretends to be deaf in order to gain accommodation in a crowded inn. Kennedy accurately summarises the plot and its (p. 7) reliance on conventional tropes and situations: `Stock eighteenth- century themes are skilfully exploited here: marriage of love over marriage of interest, bourgeois frugality and prudence over aristo- cratic honour, testy master-servant relations in which money is the main factor, and the psychology of deaf-mutes . . . It has no political message, only a few social banalities.'\up10 V \up0 At \'aerst glance it does seem very traditional, and, no doubt, contemporary audiences read little into it. But all these `stock themes' have implications in identifying the political sympathies of the audience, and some of the new situations or jokes had a more than stock resonance in the context of its \'aerst performance in 1790 \'b1 the legitimate travellers' room and the host's chair at table are `usurped' by an outsider pretending to be deaf. Did the revolutionaries of 1790 seem `deaf to reality'? Or just the provincial ones travelling to Paris? If their policies were a trick, should we admire their cunning or their effrontery? The play posed no such political questions directly of its audience, but its very popularity raises them for the cultural analysts. My own curiosity is raised particularly by the metaphor of deafness being adopted as a strategy for coping with a material problem \'b1 particularly as the number of dramatic characters who are deaf, mute or blind steadily increased during the period under investigation. \
\
p.8: My own method is fundamentally rooted in principles of historical materialism, which continually raise the question of in whose interest events take place, and look for the ways in which material conditions in\uc0\u32 \u772 uence ideological explanations. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.8: When discussing theatrical production my focus will not always be on the most influential aspects of political or social change, but on how the apparently trivial minutiae of the entertainment business reflected ideological attitudes that were being determined elsewhere on the wide stage of the world. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.9: However, whilst attracted by the oblique perspective of New Historicism, I will continually look to the ultimate shift in material power between social classes to explain the twists and turns of apparent contingency. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.11: My study, of course, intends to explore the very speci\'aec cultural force of theatre production and how it was involved in `carrying through the transformation'.  -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.14: As shall be seen, throughout this period of cultural crisis, the popular theatre embodied and reflected in many forms not only the material concerns but also many of the wider, less tangible, anxieties of its audiences. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
\
Ch 1: lots of references to what is and is not \'93popular\'94, with no indication of how he determined them\
Notes don\'92t include any real details on how popularity is determined\
\
Conclusion\
p.221: I have, however, argued in some detail that the determining feature of the period for the theatre was the sense of loss, a feeling that things had changed in ways that people did not expect or want, and that theatrical formulations reflected this in images of incarceration, dislocation and supernatural intervention. Plays looked backwards to the past in order to make sense of the present and future. That past provided contradictory settings \'b1 cruel fortresses of feudal power and innocent family homes in rural villages. Homes and security that were continually threatened, but, in dreamlike happy (222) endings, were saved by heroic acts of restoration. But in real life, conflict and change were not resolved so neatly. If traditional powers were restored they were reconstructed in the process, and, when the reconstructions were as thorough as Napoleon's reinvention of autocracy, the factory owner's dispossession of the peripatetic clothier, or Jeremy Bentham's utilitarian reformulation of Enlightenment benevolence, then the oppression seemed worse as it had become more efficient. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.224: These details of theatre administration and financial policy confirm my conviction that capitalism or, as it was then termed, political economy was the one ideology to emerge more confident than before from the intellectual turmoil engendered by the Revolution. What Adam Smith called the `invisible hand' of economic competition was becoming visible. Classical economists and their political equivalents, the Benthamite Utilitarians, began to claim that the market was the only realistic force that could bene\'aet good, and drive out bad, practice \'b1 not only in commerce, but in all organisations, civic, cultural and even charitable. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.225: The signi\'aecance of relating these \'aenal years is that Godwin encouraged the young Hazlitt to complete Holcroft's un\'aenished autobiography.W Although Hazlitt probably considered the task a piece of hack work, the book's existence indicates a direct link between pre-Revolutionary radicalism, as professed by Holcroft, and the post-1815 radicalism associated with a new generation of rationalists that included not only Hazlitt but Francis Place and Robert Owen. Holcroft, a self-educated man, never let persecution or disappointment in the course of events undermine his belief that simple honesty could \'aend rational solutions to political problems. In that he was probably the most consistent of those who greeted the dawn of 1789. For many of the so-called Romantics the Terror of 1793, the emergence of Napoleon's personal dictatorship and cultural triumph of bourgeois vulgarity led them to adopt a state of social isolation and intellectual denial. The new radicalism of the 1820s replaced both Holcroft's simple faith in the benevolence of man and the Romantic obsession with individual identity with a new critique of property. Owen called it Socialism. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018}