{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl520\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 All ten items could be evaluated through the lens of \'93pleasure\'94 or \'93seriousness\'94
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Nine works address war with France. The only title with no link to France is the ballad, though even then it might be notable that \'93The excellent old ballad of the babes in the wood\'94 is not a political ballad.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Eight works provide material for a discussion of gender
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Seven works can be discussed together for the light they shed on Christianity in 18thC culture, especially the relationship between religion and politics
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Five works would relate to a history of the Gothic
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Four works are related to the 18thC failure to recognise the cure for scurvy which had already been discovered and experimentally demonstrated.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Four works discuss (or could be used to discuss) racial difference
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Three works are directly related to Oliver Goldsmith -- his novel appears; he\'92s prominent in the jestbook; and Darwin prescribes his \'93moral writing\'94 as a cure for some mental diseases
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 The \'93print culture\'94 lens struggles to resolve into a coherent story. Attempting to account for how and why all of these texts came into being, in a form that accounts somehow for \'93the 1790s,\'94 seems like a more ridiculous task when I imagine trying to describe the equivalent description of \'93the 1990s.\'94 But there is something here about trying to shift our baseline of what a \'93normal\'94 text is. A lot of work of comprehensive bibliography\'97 and especially a lot of digital work attempting use use bibliography to answer sociological questions\'97 is focused on the novel. But only one of my 10 items is a novel, and it wouldn\'92t even be considered a 1790s novel.
\f1\fs24 \
}