{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93But however essential it is for data-rich literary history, modeling cannot be the sole foundation for the field. 
\b Models of literary systems are not simply arguments
\b0  about the existence of and connections between literary works in the past;
\b  they are arguments made with reference to the disciplinary infrastructure
\b0 \'97the bibliographies and collections, analog and digital\'97that transmit evidence of past works and relationships to the present. Modeling, even when integrated with descriptive bibliography as I have described, does not reflect on this transmission. Models embody a scholar\'92s arguments, whereas disciplinary infrastructure is an effect of multiple arguments: a sequence of assumptions, decisions, representations, and remediations. Such histories of transmission shape how the researcher can explore, and what she can know of, the historical context that disciplinary infrastructure appears to represent. To adequately perform literary history, data-rich projects must investigate these histories of transmission and how they constitute the documentary record.\'94 (Bode 42)\
\
\'93The distinctions or gaps between the context signified by collections and the exemplars used in signification 
\b might partly arise from, but are not simply the consequence of, successive exclusions of documents
\b0 , as the Stanford Literary Lab Pamphlet 11 suggests. In chapter 1 I noted that, in defining \'93the published,\'94 \'93the archive,\'94 and \'93the corpus\'94 as progressively smaller selections, those authors admit the constructed nature Page 44 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 of literary data. Yet they also argue that mass-digitization largely avoids those exclusions, such that \'93the corpus of a project can now easily be (almost) as large as the archive, while the archive is itself becoming\'97at least for modern times (almost) as large as all of published literature\'94 (Algee-Hewitt et al., 2).\
Even with their account of the considerable practical challenges involved in accessing versions of specific literary works, this description of mass digitization drastically diminishes the degree of exclusion involved in constructing such collections. \'94 (Bode 43-4)\
\
\'93Digitized collections are partial in another way, in that combining the holdings of multiple analog collections tends to obscure the individual histories of the contributing collections and their implications for the form, scope, and critical capacity of the resulting digital one.\'94 (Bode 44)\
\
\'93Collections have always been constituted in this way. In analog collections, documents are represented and remediated through the cataloging systems that organize holdings and the interfaces that interpret them: the card catalogs, special collection indexes, or online library catalogs that provide a method of searching and a type, form, and detail of metadata. \'85 A key difference between analog collections and digital ones is that literary historians rarely, if ever, treat the former (a given library, for instance) as proxies for literature as it circulated and was understood in the past, whereas digital collections such as Google Books or HathiTrust are sometimes assumed to be representative in this way.\'94 (Bode 44)\
\
\'93Due to their multiplicity and complex interaction, the components involved in producing digital collections expand access to the historical record in certain ways, even as they increase the likelihood of unrealized and significant disjunctions between the access we intend and the access we achieve. 
\b Digital humanities scholars recognize that digital infrastructure shapes knowledge production, and digital literary historians have responded with explicitly curatorial approaches
\b0  to constructing and exploring digital documents and collections.\'94 (Bode 45)\
\
\'93These digital humanities projects highlight 
\b four features
\b0  that I believe should also 
\b underpin the modeling of literary systems in data-rich literary history
\b0 . First is a critical assessment of the 
\b relationship between the historical context analyzed and the digital collection(s) used
\b0  for analysis; second is detailed attention to the 
\b relationship between the documents included in the digital collection(s) and the terms in which they are represented
\b0 ; third is explicit discussion of the 
\b means by which data are extracted and modeled
\b0 ; and fourth is a 
\b published record of data
\b0  arising from that extensive history of transmission. Existing projects in data-rich literary history often (though by no means universally) demonstrate the second and third of these features. The need for data publication, and for platforms and modes of review to support it, is also increasingly recognized and enacted.7 But data-rich literary history projects rarely consider how the disciplinary infrastructure analyzed relates to the historical context investigated. The lack of shared standards for data publication\'97and, more specifically, of a framework for combining these four features in investigating and representing the transmission and transformation of historical evidence to and in the present\'97problematizes the field\'92s capacity to advance historical knowledge.\'94 (Bode 46)\
\
\'93Proprietary mass-digitized collections such as Google Books, Early English Books Online, and The British Newspaper Archive (owned by Google, ProQuest, and findmypast, respectively) are increasingly used in humanities research. But their scope and scale\'97let alone the histories of transmission that produce them\'97can be very difficult to discern; indeed, 
\b the commercial imperatives of these enterprises arguably depend on them presenting these collections as comprehensive
\b0 .\'94 (Bode 47)}