{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red253\green151\blue172;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c99200\c59400\c67500;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Theodore E. D. Braun 
\fs24 \

\fs32 Comparative Drama, Volume 30, Number 4, Winter 1996-1997, pp. 558-560 (Review) 
\fs24 \
p.559: n analysis of the most performed plays of the decade reveals that audiences enjoyed complicated plots, comic resolutions, traditional scenes of young love winning out over all odds. This is especially true of the theater up to the Terror; "patriotic entertainments" abound under the Terror, perhaps because so many other plays are prohibited or severely censured. After the Terror, for the last five years of the decade, the notion of good and bad revolutions is born, the Terror being in the latter category and seen as an aberration. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.559: informative chapters on the creation and evolution of genres (in particular, mixed genres, melodramas, and the like) -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.560: \cb3 the ratio of comedies to tragedies performed was an astonishing 14 to 1\cb1  -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.560: We also learn, somewhat to our surprise, that theatergoers even in the darkest days of the Revolution "remained attached to the pre-Revolutionary repertory or that part of the new repertory that mimicked the old" (p. 90), although it must be said that very few indeed of the authors repertoried in the second part of the book are those canonized today. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.561:  Racine's position in sixty-first place, with only 298 performances, corroborates the public's preference for comedy over tragedy; and "approved" playwrights of the Revolution also fare poorly: Marie-Joseph Ch\'e9nier comes in sixty-ninth place, with a total of only 283 performances (sixty two of them for Charles IX), while Jean-Louis Laya's four plays had a mere sixty performances, of which L'Ami des Lois had only eighteen. It is clear that these authors would be even less discussed if earlier critics had had access to the kind of information contained in these pages. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.561: very useful and thought-provoking charts showing the top ten plays by year -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018\
p.561: A book like this can correct many misconceptions that we have of the theater in Paris during the Revolutionary era; it can lead us to understand more clearly than ever before what people actually wanted to see, and permit us to make reasonable conjectures about why. We can, on account of the mass of easily accessible data now available to us in one place, more fully appreciate what living the Revolution was like for the man (and woman) in the street. -- Highlighted Nov 7, 2018}