{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Scholars have worked to infrastructurally eliminate the \'93unsigned\'94 author. \'93Real\'94 names are provided even in cases where this substitution contains little real information. One work, titled \'93Observations on the origin and effects of the Test Act\'94 and printed in 1790, has its author listed in the ESTC as \'93Hudson, active 1790.\'94 A note suggests that this attribution is somewhat shaky: \'93Attribution from Halkett & Laing which seems to be based on a MS attribution on O copy title page, no longer legible. O copy with MS date May 18. 1790. Verify number and position of advertisement {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7FE6E8CE-622F-47FD-B7E7-5B2DA0445203"}}{\fldrslt leaves.\'94}} This is the only item in the ESTC attributed to \'93Hudson, 1790\'94 so identifying \'93Hudson\'94 in this way does not provide value by linking the work to another. In contrast, the title page attribution identifies the author as \'93a dissenter\'94 \'97 a more informative identification, and even one which might form the basis of a valuable database query. How many works are attributed only to \'93a dissenter,\'94 and what do those works in common? The existing database infrastructure makes it highly challenging to answer those questions.}