{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Some limiting factor was necessary to make this project feasible from a technical standpoint. I needed to define a small enough scope that I could attempt something like comprehensiveness within that scope. I also knew that for many of the databases I wanted to use, I would not be able to access their full records, but samples of up to roughly 50,000 records had been given to other scholars (based on other papers I saw people publish on the ESTC). I decided that roughly a decade would give me enough texts to be worth approaching in this way, but not more texts than I could handle.\
I narrowed my focus to England as a way to sidestep problems of metadata. The Ireland of the eighteenth century had an unstable and contested relationship with the United Kingdom: how is this addressed by metadata assigning countries to texts? Is something tagged as \'93UK\'94 if the city is in the UK now, or if it was in the UK at the time? I assume now. I decided not to open this can of worms! \'93Future Work.\'94 Narrowing to England also helps to reduce the number of texts being considered. I\'92m disappointed that this means excluding all those Scottish pirated editions. Additional Future Work could compare Scotland to England, or grapple with Ireland.\
Once I decided to pick roughly a decade, I picked the 1790s for a couple reasons. I began in the eighteenth century as a Gothicist, and remain curious about how the Gothic might relate to its print context: choosing a decade that was important to the Gothic opened up the possibility that my ultimate findings would be Gothic-related. The 1790s were also just a generally exciting decade, as there was a massive expansion of print, and a massive cultural anxiety about the role of print in peoples\'92 lives. The nature of the project meant that I had to pick my decade before I really knew what to find in it: the heightened revolutionary stakes of this particular decade seemed to give me the best chance that the decade would have something interesting in it. It\'92s also an important decade for the eighteenth century texts which would later become canonical, namely, the origins of Romanticism.}