{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 As another example of \'91widespread social phenomena being socially widespread,\'92 we can see the suggestion of an archival Josephine Miles, or a \'91thanks to my wife for typing my manuscript\'92 in the particular form of acknowledgement given to the labour of Lillian Thrussell. In contrast to the extensive detail provided about the events of Johnson\'92s life, Turner tells us only that Johnson was \'93assisted by\'94 her \'93from the early days\'94 (12). He gives her name in a form that humanizes her but denies the seriousness of her involvement: \'93Mrs. Lillian Thrussell (Miss Gurden), known to all users of the Collection simply as \'91Lil\'92\'94 (12) carefully indicates her marital status, maiden name, and nickname but without indicating what her official role was, how she got involved, or what might have interested her about it. Turner\'92s praise suggests quite serious work: she was known for her \'93good memory and technical inventiveness,\'94 and \'93a great deal of the actual collecting and selection was delegated to her\'94 (12).\
Indeed, Thrussell\'92s continuity of scholarship seems to be greater even than Johnson\'92s \'97 she continued to oversee the collection for both Johnson\'92s successor and for 
\i his
\i0  successor. Turner\'92s description of these events consistently strips Thrussell of agency, instead attributing it to the men: \'93After the war Mrs. Thrussell officially left the Press, but Johnson did not allow her to stop working for the Collection, for he continued to provide her with a great deal of sorting and mounting to be done at home. Johnson's death presented his successor, Mr. Charles Batey, with something of a problem, which was solved by his recalling Mrs. Thrussell to look after the Colection, under the supervision of Mr. Harry Carter, the Archivist to the University Press. When the Collection was transferred to the Bodleian in 1968 Mrs. Thrussell joined the Library staff in order to assist in the task of establishing it in its new home\'94 (12-13). It is up to Johnson to 
\i allow
\i0  Thrussell\'92s role in the collection, and he involves her by 
\i providing
\i0  work to be done at home; Thrussell exists as a resource which Charles Batey can choose to 
\i recall
\i0  to solve his problems when he is overwhelmed by the collecton, and Thrussell\'92s work is domesticated into the caretaking act of 
\i looking after
\i0  the collection (naturally, under the supervision of somebody with proper authority, of course). At last Thrussell is the subject of her own verb when she \'93joined\'94 the library staff, but this fact is related with as little curiosity as the only other action she took, when she \'93officially left\'94 the press. We learned Harry Carter\'92s title: what was 
\i her
\i0  title?\
Johnson himself perhaps knew that Thrussell\'92s role mattered\'97 Turner tells us that \'93[m]ore than once Johnson said that if the Collection was the child of his own inveterate love of collecting, it was \'91even more the child of the qualities\'92 of Mrs. Thrussell\'94 (12) I myself am only speculating that Thrussell was likely an important mind behind the collection whose intellectual contributions have gone wrongly unacknowledged. A brief search did not turn up any other records of a Lillian Thrussel or a Lillian Gurden.}