{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Dr. Buurma and Dr. Heffernan,\
I write to propose a paper for your MLA panel on \'93New Histories of Quantitative and Computational Methods,\'94 in the optimism that perhaps something like MLA will in fact occur this year. A title and abstract are included below, and my CV is attached.\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Title:
\b0 \cf2  \'93Project Gutenberg\'92s Textual Selection and Editing\'94\
\

\b \cf2 Abstract:
\b0 \cf2  My work examines the history of digital infrastructures, and how databases encode their assumptions about what literature is, who it is for, and how it should be used. For this paper, I discuss Project Gutenberg, a repository of over 60,000 public domain ebooks which began in 1971 as a utopian project by a single person, Michael Hart, who personally typed the first 100 Project Gutenberg texts over a period of twenty years. I examine Hart\'92s early textual selection through the lens of cultural capital, as applied to literary history by John Guillory: Hart, I argue, was in some measure trying to bring about the material revolution in textual access that Guillory and Bourdieu (and so many others) have advocated. Why, then, does Project Gutenberg now occupy such an uneasy, marginalized position among scholars who share these goals? I answer, in part, that Project Gutenberg defines itself in hostile opposition to scholarly norms of textual selection and editing; as a result, it can seem like Project Gutenberg does not simply have different standards, but 
\i \cf2 no
\i0 \cf2  standards. Like much work in critical algorithm studies, my methods move between something like formalism (close-reading the implications of particular data structures) and a historicist approach (drawing on materials like listserv messages to situate technological decisions in a social context). Explicating the technical specifics of Project Gutenberg may be of practical use to scholars using it in their research, since it is one of the oddities I discuss that Project Gutenberg is almost as widely used as it is disavowed. More importantly, taking seriously the historic foundations of the project allows us to see from a new angle the 1990s debates about literary canons which occurred simultaneously with Project Gutenberg\'92s most productive years.\
\
Many thanks for your consideration.\
}