{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 In earlier chapters, especially chapter 1, the 1790s provided a backdrop to explore my real subject of contemporary literary databases. In this chapter, however, my real subject is 1790s print culture in England; I am curious about how this subject might be illuminated differently through my unusual sampling method (in the vein of speculative computing) but several of my sampling principles are defined around the goal of actually acquiring sufficient titles to answer my questions. First, for example, I decided to work with my \'93post-cleaning\'94 sample, to exclude non-English or non-1790s works. Although it is interesting to note the \'93false positives\'94 that appear, their presence in the sample would limit my ability to comment meaningfully on my actual subject, 1790s print in England. I also decided that I would re-sample from ECCO instead of the ESTC if I could not find a way to personally read at last five of the works in the ESTC sample.\
I preferred to select my texts from the ESTC because it is the largest/broadest corpus from which I can sample. This would allow me to perform another case study \'93spot check\'94 like the exploration of Charlotte Smith\'92s works in chapter 1: of the works I read from the ESTC, which are also available in other resources, and why? Sampling from ECCO instead would eliminate the possibility of finding works present in, eg, HathiTrust but 
\i \cf2 not
\i0 \cf2  ECCO, and reduces the ability of this experiment to illuminate the database ecosystem. Nonetheless, I prefer in this chapter to limit my observations about databases in order to increase my ability to discuss the 1790s in England.\
I considered balancing my sample chronologically, e.g., taking one work from each year 1789-99. Doing so would reduce the chance that my random sample would overrepresent more productive years. However, I decided that such chronological overrepresentation would be exactly the kind of phenomenon I\'92d like to discover.}