{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red102\green102\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Provisional title: \'93Women\'92s books in digital databases, 1789-99: corpora are not the new canons.\'94\
My essay examines \cf3 how we remediate \cf2 early \cf3 Romantic women\'92s books today\cf2  in digital databases. I argue that these digital resources operate structurally according to a logic that is familiar from longstanding debates about literary canons: some works are granted more prominence, and are reproduced by scholarly institutions, in ways that lead to new distant reading research being conducted on collections of texts which look suspiciously similar to old canonically-restrictive syllabi. Seeking parallels between the development of distant reading research and John Guillory\'92s history of the cultural capital of literary canons, we can also see how responses to underrepresentation of women in corpora mirror responses to their underrepresentation in syllabi, particularly in the creation of specialized smaller databases solely for women\'92s writing. Drawing parallels between the institutional impact of selective canons and selective corpora also reveals, however, the important ways in which digital resources do 
\i not
\i0  simply function as new literary canons. Indeed, using the same rhetoric of representation to critique digital scholarly tools can deflect attention away from novel challenges which require novel solutions.\
To make my argument, I study a sample of late eighteenth century writing, consisting of all works identified as being published in England between 1789 and 1799 within several major databases. I trace the inclusion and exclusion of works by women in the English Short Title Catalogue, Eighteenth Century Collections Online, the Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation partnership, HathiTrust, and Project Gutenberg. \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 Despite the crucial importance of corpus-building (that is, the accumulation of a large body of text files for analysis) to the interpretation of distant reading research, it is often extremely difficult to know what is 
\i in
\i0  a corpus. Even large institutional resources used by many scholars provide little \cf2 information regarding what they include. I have written a customized program for each database to infer a probable gender for each author, and to infer a probable broad genre for each title. I then compare each database\'92s demographics to prior scholarly attempts to describe the period, such as Peter Garside and James Raven\'92s bibliographic survey 
\i The English Novel 1770-1829
\i0 . These comparisons form the basis for a broader reading of the positions occupied by Romantic women\'92s books in the works published in the 1790s, and in contemporary digital resources.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}