{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;
\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Wikipedia: \'93April 2010: Visual artists were not included in the previous lawsuit and settlement, are the plaintiff groups in another lawsuit, and say they intend to bring more than just Google Books under scrutiny. "The new class action," read the statement, "goes beyond Google's Library Project, and includes Google's other systematic and pervasive infringements of the rights of photographers, illustrators and other visual artists."[101]\
Wikipedia: \'93May 2010: It was reported that Google would launch a digital book store called Google Editions.[102] It would compete with Amazon, Barnes & Noble, Apple and other electronic book retailers with its own e-book store. Unlike others, Google Editions would be completely online and would not require a specific device (such as kindle, Nook, or iPad).\
Wikipedia: \'93June 2010: Google passed 12 million books scanned.[12]\
Wikipedia: \'93August 2010: It was announced that Google intends to scan all known existing 129,864,880 books within a decade, amounting to over 4 billion digital pages and 2 trillion words in total.[12]\
Wikipedia: \'93December 2010: Google eBooks (Google Editions) was launched in the US.[103]\
Wikipedia: \'93December 2010: Google launched the Ngram Viewer, which collects and graphs data on word usage across its book collection.[31]\
Wikipedia: \'93March 2011: A federal judge rejected the settlement reached between the publishing industry and Google.[104]\
\
\'93At a time when the rest of Google was obsessed with making apps more \'93social\'94\'97Google Plus was released in 2011\'97Books was seen by those who worked on it as one of those projects from the old era, like Search itself, that made good on the company\'92s mission \'93to organize the world\'92s information and make it universally accessible and useful.\'94 It was the first project that Google ever called a \'93moonshot.\'94\'94 (Somers)\
\
Wikipedia: \'93March 2012: Google passed 20 million books scanned.[105][106]\
Wikipedia: \'93March 2012: Google reached a settlement with publishers.[107]\
Wikipedia: \'93November 2013: Ruling in Authors Guild v. Google, US District Judge Denny Chin sides with Google, citing fair use.[109] The authors said they would appeal.[110]\
Wikipedia: \'93October 2015: The appeals court sided with Google, declaring that Google did not violate copyright law.[111] According to the New York Times, Google has scanned more than 25 million books.[10]\
Wikipedia: \'93April 2016: The US Supreme Court declined to hear the Authors Guild's appeal, which means the lower court's decision stood, and Google would be allowed to scan library books and display snippets in search results without violating the law.[112]\'94 (Wikipedia)\
\
Wikipedia: \'93As of October 2015, the number of scanned book titles was over 25 million, but the scanning process has slowed down in American academic libraries.[10][11] As of October 2019, Google celebrated 15 years of Google Books and provided the number of scanned books as more than 40 million titles.[14]\'94\
\
Wikipedia: \'93Google has been quite secretive regarding its plans on the future of the Google Books project. Scanning operations had been slowing down since at least 2012, as confirmed by the librarians at several of Google's partner institutions. At University of Wisconsin, the speed had reduced to less than half of what it was in 2006. However, the librarians have said that the dwindling pace could be a natural result of maturation of the project \'96 initially stacks of books were entirely taken up for scanning whereas now Google only needed to consider the ones that have not been scanned already.[49] The company's own Google Books history page ends in 2007, and the Google Books blog was merged into the Google Search blog in 2012.[113] Despite winning the decade-long litigation in 2017, The Atlantic has said that Google has "all but shut down its scanning operation."[20] In April 2017, Wired reported that there were only a few Google employees working on the project, and new books were still being scanned, but at a significantly lower rate. It commented that the decade-long legal battle had caused Google to lose its ambition.[113]\'94\cf3 \
\
Material is still being sent to Google Books for scanning, however. In November 2019, University of Colorado Boulder announced that their library would be partnering with Google for books to be scanned, with copies appearing both in Google Books and in HathiTrust. (\'93Increasing Access with Google Books\'94)\
\'93In total, the process is estimated to take two to four years to complete. With this estimation, Interim Director of Libraries Information Technology Michael Dulock approximated that if Google processed 200,000 books and each book was about 200 pages, this project will save the Libraries about $20 million. \
Another way to measure savings for the Libraries is with time. Dulock said that if Digital Media Services in the Libraries worked on this project full-time, with one staff member at 40 hours a week and five students at 20 hours a week, doing nothing else, it would take close to 100 years to complete.\'94 (\'93Increasing Access with Google Books\'94)\cf4 \
\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \'93\cf2 HathiTrust was launched in 2008 by the 11 University of California libraries and the 12-university consortium known as the Committee on Institutional Cooperation (CIC), with key support provided by the University of Michigan and Indiana University.\'94 (Karels) \'93As of today [October 13, 2008], HathiTrust contains more than 2 million volumes and approximately \'be of a billion pages, about 16 percent of which are in the public domain. Public domain materials will be available for reading online. Materials protected by copyright, although not available for reading online, are given the full range of digital archiving services, thereby offering member libraries a reliable means to preserve their collections.\'94 (HathiTrust, \'93Major Library Partners Launch HathiTrust Shared Digital Repository\'94)\cf4 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'93When Google partnered with university libraries to scan their collections, it had agreed to give them each a copy of the scanning data, and in 2008 the HathiTrust began organizing and sharing those files. (It had to fend off the Authors Guild in court, too.) HathiTrust has 125 member organizations and institutions who \'93believe that we can better stewardresearch and cultural heritage by working together than alone or by leaving it to an organization like Google,\'94 says Mike Furlough, the trust\'92s director.\'94 (Van Helden)\cf4 \
\cf2 \'93The vast majority of those digitized books-around 95 percent, as of mid-2017- had originally been scanned as part of the Google Books project; the agreements that Google Books entered into with the libraries typically stipulated that Google had to provide the library with a digital copy of each book scanned from that library.\'94 (Bauder)\
In 2010, just two years later, \'94HathiTrust is now jointly owned and operated by 52 institutions from the U.S. and Europe, all focused on a common goal \'96 to build an extraordinary digital library that preserves and provides access to the cultural record. The new members to HathiTrust include the Library of Congress, Stanford University, Arizona State University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and University of Madrid, HathiTrust\'92s first international partner.\'94 (Karels)\
\'94In October 2015, HathiTrust comprised over 13.7 million volumes, including 5.3 million of which were in the public domain in the United States.\'94 (Wikipedia)}