{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green121\blue193;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c57288\c79972;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \cb2 Do these citations with some kind of LaTeX to learn that process\cb1 \
A model for my work can be found in a methodological debate within the study of Early Modern drama, when Farmer & Lesser introduced revisions to Blayney\'92s field-changing 1997 essay \'93The Publication of Playbooks.\'94 Blayney\'92s \'93detailed statistical analysis of the market for printed plays\'94 (F&L 4) argues that \'93never accounted for a very significant fraction of the trade in English books\'94 (B, qtd in F&L 3) and that, based on their reprinting rate of \'93only\'94 48% of first editions, \'93no more than one play in five would have returned the publisher\'92s initial investment inside five years\'94 (B, qtd in F&L 4). F&L argue that \'93 like all previous arguments about the popularity of playbooks, Blayney\'92s is flawed at a fundamental level because it does not systematically compare the market performance of playbooks to that of other kinds of books\'94 (F&L 4). In response, therefore, \'93Using the same four criteria that Blayney employs\'97total number of editions, market share, frequency of reprinting, and profitability\'97but extending his research to include comparisons with other kinds of books, we will argue that playbooks were, in fact, far more popular than Blayney contends.\'94 (F&L 4). Total number of editions and frequency of reprinting To properly contextualize market share, they carefully compare plays only to other \'93speculative\'94 non-monopoly works (L&F 14). \'93Plays were, in fact, among the most successful books in which an early modern stationer could choose to invest.\'94 (F&L 6). F&L stress that they study play
\i books
\i0 , not play
\i texts
\i0 .\
The crucial intervention of F&L\'92s first article is the comparison of playbooks to the marketplace at large, and to another genre (sermons), since \'93
\i popularity
\i0  is 
\i ipso facto
\i0  a relative term\'94 (F&L 4). Also useful is the disentanglement of different metrics of popularity, since \'93Contrary to what one might have assumed, a higher market share did not always correlate with a higher reprint rate.\'94 (F&L 26): \'93Sermons, for example, claimed a much greater share of the speculative market, but playbooks were far more likely to reach a second edition; so which class of books was more \'93popular\'94? \'85 For reasons both cultural and economic, different kinds of books may have sold in different ways, may have had different 
\i structures of popularity
\i0 .\'94 (F&L 27)\
Blayney\'92s response take issue, first, with the books which Farmer & Lesser choose to exclude, and, second, with their comparisons of percentages rather than counts. Many of his critiques rest on Early Modern historical details not relevant to my inquiry, such as his argument against Farmer & Lesser\'92s claim that \'93patented books were produced under fundamentally different economic conditions than other books\'94 (L&F 17, qtd in B 38). His methodological critiques, however, are immediately applicable: regarding the comparison of reprinting percentages, he notes, \'93the authors ignore an elementary arithmetical truism that completely vitiates their main conclusion. Simply put, a small percentage of a large number can be much bigger than a large percentage of a small number\'94 (B 43). This is where I am inclined to stick with Farmer & Lesser \'97 Blayney seems to be ignoring the viewpoint from which the matter is being considered. If you have a playbook in one hand and a sermon-book in the other, which one is more likely to be reprinted? The answer to 
\i that
\i0  question will have nothing to do with the total number of playbooks and sermon-books printed each year; since the question is predictive, rather than evaluative, it relies on percentages.\
I do agree with Blayney\'92s central argument is that \'93Market share in the real world is not always greatly affected by what publishers (sometimes wrongly) think will sell, and is not determined at all by what academics subsequently choose to study. What counts is what the customers actually buy.\'94 (B 40). But this seems to miss Farmer & Lesser\'92s core point that market share is not the only metric of popularity, and that \'93what publishers (sometimes wrongly) think will sell\'94 is its own valuable kind of popularity to examine.\
Moreover, even if, as Blayney persuasively supports the numbers showing that, of the playbooks, \'93no more than 107 (32.2 percent), and perhaps only 104 (31.3 percent)\'94 (45), he still has not addressed Farmer & Lesser\'92s need to address the choice of the qualifier \'93only\'94 (L&F 3). By his own numbers, [what\'92s the fate of sermon-books??]}