{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red252\green111\blue207;\red204\green102\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
My first chapter establishes the vocabulary and theoretical frameworks of the dissertation, with an explanation of why I have chosen to focus on the 1790s. 
\f1 \cf2 \

\f0 \cf3 [First, theory / methodology.] \cf2 My methodology situates me within queer DH and critical algorithm studies. \cf4 As this chapter will establish, \cf2 I follow the work of scholars like T.L. Cowan in undertaking reparative work on archives. My aspiration is to join a growing body of queer DH scholarship in developing a non-extractive, anti-oppressive, less neoliberal digital humanities methodology. Accordingly, \cf4 this chapter\cf2  will present a humanistic critique of essentialist tendencies in simplistic digital projects, and discuss the pitfalls I have attempted to avoid in my own methodology. In discussing my methods, I will take up Johanna Drucker\'92s vocabulary of \'93capta,\'94 rather than \'93data,\'94 to emphasize that records are created, shaped by choices and by constraints, rather than neutrally \'93given.\'94 I will apply insights from the emerging field of critical algorithm studies to reflect on the code I have written for the project, and the importance of engaging with digital projects at the level of code. I will also discuss my own preferred vocabulary around experiment design (modelling, sensitivity, fruitfulness), and its debts to Willard McCarty.
\f1 \cf2 \

\f0 \cf3 Defining the scope of my material\cf4 , in addition to establishing my technological frameworks, also allows me to answer key questions about my chosen subject matter.\cf3  This chapter will set out the constraints I have set in my inquiry \'97 material printed in Great Britain between January 1, 1789 and December 31, 1799 (inclusive) \'97 and discuss the suitability of this decade. This ten-year \'93slice\'94 of the historical print record is not chosen at random. \cf4 T\cf3 he general period is chosen for being home to\cf2  a crucial literary moment in which thematized literary canons begin to take form.\cf4  When the eighteenth century [literary world? Who does this?] begins to collect an English vernacular tradition posited against a Classical past and a French present, the \'93archive\'94 of literary history begins to be interpreted into \'93canons\'94 of texts, with connotations of merit and implications for national identity. [Therefore, [this chapter will do something about] questions about archives and canons.] Having chosen the 1790s generally, t\cf3 he specific years are chosen to capture the major events of the French Revolution\cf4 , reflecting an interest in politics.
\i  
\i0 \cf3 I am interested in politics as something that occurs between people rather than between parties; interested in \'91schools of thought\'92 and the complex individuality of those schools. [The complex, shifting nature of a social or philosophical connection is totally flattened by the network models I am considering making..])\cf4  - Political affiliation, like literary genre, is not a matter of simple taxonomic classification. Therefore, this chapter will [X].\

\i \cf2 Also the Gothic. Also women, including political women.\cf4  
\i0 The choice of the 1790s also supports an interest in the Gothic and in women\'92s writing. [I don\'92t beg the question by framing my questions as assuming the importance of Gothic / women, but I do anticipate that the questions I 
\i have
\i0  asked will reveal their prominence.]}