{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Chapter 
\f1 \uc0\u57372 
\f0  begins to explain how questions of form and genre intersect with grittier aspects of literary production and dis-tribution. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 is requires enriching a library of texts with social context\'97 so we know, for instance, which works became com-mercial successes or critical favorites. Armed with that evidence, scholars can ask how literary trends were related to the pressures exerted by the marketplace or by changing patterns of critical judgment. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 is inquiry reveals a strikingly regular pattern, where the criteria de
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ning literary prominence align strongly with di-rections of change across long periods of time. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e arc of literary history is long, but it bends (so to speak) toward prestige. At this point, we are no longer simply transforming familiar accounts of history by backing up to take a longer view of them. If stan-dards of aesthetic judgment have remained relatively stable for centuries at a time, and have shaped literary change over equally long timelines, then we are looking at an account of literary his-tory that is basically at odds with the story of rapid generational reversal told in our textbooks and anthologies.\'94 (xvi)\cf3 \
\
\'93How do the standards of literary distinction change? How rapidly? And how are the directions of literary change related to the social pressures exerted by reviewers or purchasers?\'94 (69)\
\
\'93When I say that critics have contented themselves with speculation on these questions, I don\'92t mean that we have been timid. Our speculations are often quite bold. \'85 But we don\'92t expect 
\f2 fl
\f0 ourishes of that kind to create much consensus. \'85 So when historians are trying to produce consensus about cultural change, we tend to shift into a more cautious narrative mode emphasizing individual events: the construction of the Westin Bonaventure Hotel or the publication of Lyrical Ballads. 
\f2 Th
\f0 en we hope that readers will accept these events as emblems of a larger concept whose outlines we cannot sketch precisely.
\f2 \
Th
\f0\b e thesis of this chapter is that a di
\f2\b0 ff
\f0\b erent kind of description is possible, which will combine the rigor of a detailed account with the ambitious scope of a larger narrative.
\b0  \'94 (69)\
\
\'93Our received narrative of this period is organized by a succession of discrete concepts de
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ning di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent criteria of judg-ment: Romanticism, Victorian realism, aestheticism, naturalism, and modernism. For many observers, 
\b this has implied a fairly profound transformation of literary opinion every generation or so.
\b0  Modernism, for instance, was a \'93literary revolution\'94 that changed not only how writers created new works but how they evaluated the past, producing \'93a radical and wholesale revision of the inherited conception of English literature.\'94
\f2  
\f0 In fact, when we model the textual dimension of literary suc-cess, 
\b we 
\f2\b0 fi
\f0\b nd standards of judgment that change only gradually and slowly.
\b0  A model trained on mid- nineteenth- century evidence can do a decent job of predicting which books will be prominent in the 
\f2 1920
\f0 s or 
\f2 1930
\f0 s.
\b  When standards do change, they can move in a consistent direction for a century at a time.
\b0  
\f2 Th
\f0 is is not to say that shorter- lived concepts like \'93modernism\'94 or \'93naturalism\'94 are unimportant. But 
\b it is not safe to assume that long- term change is produced simply by stringing together the smaller generational con
\f2\b0 fi
\f0\b icts
\b0  that we spend so much time discussing. 
\b Instead, long arcs of change seem to be driven in signi
\f2\b0 fi
\f0\b cant measure by shared assumptions that rarely became overt subjects of debate
\b0 .\'94 (70)\
\
Orginally he looked for the thing I am kind of looking for in the 1790s: \'93We hoped to trace the emergence of Andreas Huyssen\'92s \'93great divide\'94\'97 a widening gulf between mass culture and elite literary taste, which Huyssen describes as an emergent subject of concern in \'93the last decades of the 
\f2 19
\f0 th century and the 
\f2 fi
\f0 rst few years of the 
\f2 20
\f0 th.\'94 (71) They looked at 20 year slices from 1840 to 1920, expecting the disjunctions to be easy to spot.\
\
\'93Broadly, our results con
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 rm a version of this story of-ten advanced by scholars of the Victorian era, which has por-trayed this process less as a cultural division than as a gradual expansion of the reading audience, leading to a slow diversi
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ca-tion of the market across three- decker novels, penny dreadfuls, yellowbacks, pulp magazines, and so on.
\f1 \uc0\u57345 
\f0  
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 is may be slightly di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent from the darker and more dichotomous story of a great divide advanced by modernists and scholars of modernism, but it is not a radically new picture.
\f2  Th
\f0 e more provocative parts of this chapter, I think, are things found by accident along the way. It is not just social strati
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 cation that changes slowly: the criteria of literary judgment themselves seem to be remarkably stable. When they do change, they move with the momentum of an ocean liner: 
\b an observer in the year 
\f2\b0 1900
\f0 , equipped with a computer, 
\b could have predicted a signi
\f1\b0 \uc0\u57358 
\f0\b -cant component of change for the next 
\f2\b0 fi
\f0\b fty years just by extrapolating the directions of change visible in the last 
\f2\b0 fi
\f0\b fty
\b0 . 
\b Literature seems to move in the direction of prestigious examples, and it can keep moving in roughly the same direction across a long timeline
\b0 .\'94 (72)\
\
Both authors and scholars have incentives to exaggerate the strength of individual \'91revolutions\'92 \'97 and mentally may find it necessary since it\'92s hard to hold large timescales of reception in our heads. However, \'93Changes we have characterized as sudden revolutions may come to look more like eddies on the surface of a stream that was 
\f2 fl
\f0 owing all the time in a consistent direction.\'94 (73)\
\
\'93failure to satisfy everyone is exactly what we should expect from a measure of prestige, since prestige is a contested perspectival category.\'94 (73) Eventually we should try lots of them.\
\
\'93Scholars more commonly study reception by contrasting posi-tive and negative reviews\'97 an approach that makes sense if one 
\f2 / 
\f0 is interested in gradations of approval but that
\b  leaves out many works never reviewed at all
\b0  in selective venues. 
\f2 Th
\f0 is blind spot matters: literary historians cannot understand the boundaries of literary distinction if we only look at works on one side of the boundary.\'94 (Underwood 73-4)\
\
Honest methods: \'93I created an initial list of titles by quizzing friends who are scholars of this period.\'94 (74)\
\
\'93We also needed a sample that would contain books reviewed less often. To con
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 rm that a given book was never reviewed in any of these publications would have been a tedious task. It was easier simply to select works at random from a very large collec-/
\f2 -t
\f0 ion, while excluding authors already in the reviewed sample. In practice, this turns up mostly books that were rarely reviewed. But because sampling was genuinely random, there will be a few well- known authors in the random sample. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e model often recognizes these people and predicts that they will be successful\'97 which sadly has to be counted against it as an \'93error.\'94 \'94 (74-5)\
\
\'93
\b A digital library is itself a sample, with particular selection biases
\b0 , to be discussed below.\'94 (75) \'93But it samples a social range much broader than the range cov-ered by elite periodicals, and what I needed in this study was not completeness but contrast.\'94 (76)\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 Models of reception in Poetry and Fiction
\b0 \
\
\'93Each volume was represented for the most part as a bag of words\'97 simply counting the number of times each word occurred in the text. Before settling on this representation, I tried many other features (including rhyme and meter for poetry and \'93conditional entropy\'94 for 
\f2 fi
\f0 ction). 
\b But clever additions of that kind didn\'92t improve the models significantly, and tiny increases in predictive accuracy are rarely worth large increases in complexity.
\b0  Better methods of predicting literary success will no doubt eventually emerge.\'94 (76)\
\
Subtle burn: \'93But the authors don\'92t specify how much difference those factors made or share code and data, so at this point it is impossible to draw 
\f2 fi
\f0 rm conclusions from their argument.\'94 (77)\
\
\'93Technically, this upward drift is an error in the model. Volumes are not really more likely to be re-viewed just because they were published later: the reviewed and random volumes have the same distribution across the timeline. But this is an error of an interesting sort. A model trying to predict success for the whole century fails to produce perfectly evenhanded criteria, because books published later tend to have more of the verbal signals associated with success (across the whole century). 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 is upward drift suggests that historical change across the timeline moved in the direction of the standards that governed reception at any given point on the timeline.\'94 (78)\

\b I don\'92t understand this.\

\b0 \'93 In all these mod-els, the mean probability that a volume will be reviewed appears to increase across time. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 at is not literally true. Reviewed and random volumes are evenly distributed across the timeline, so the probability of review remains constant. But the words com-mon in reviewed volumes (across the whole timeline) also tend to become more common in all volumes as we approach the end of the timeline, so the cloud of data points always tilts up. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e \'93bar\'94 that volumes have to clear in order to be reviewed, in other words, seems to slide upward.\'94 (91)
\b \
\

\b0 \'93I want to re
\f1 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 ect for a moment on the signi
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 cance of the fact that this model works at all. It isn\'92t self- evident that we should be able to guess whether a book of poems will be reviewed purely by looking at the text. \'85 this is not a situation where we know that there is a pattern in a group of texts and set out to test an algorithm\'92s ability to capture the pattern. Rather, we are testing whether the social phenomenon of poetic prominence has any textual correlate at all. 
\f2 Th
\f0 e answer could have been no.\'94 (78)\
This is an effective rhetorical move\
\

\b \'93Trained readers were right 
\f2\b0 68%
\f0\b  of the time.\'94
\b0  (79)\
This is an INCREDIBLY helpful and persuasive experiment\
\
The Secrets of Literary Distinction\
\'93
\f2 Th
\f0 e interpretive problem we confront here lies not in machine learning but in the actual complexity of literary reception\'97 which is not required to map onto a single thesis that can be crisply explained in five pages.\

\b Because the models produced by machine learning are complex, they can faithfully and rigorously measure the actual strength of the boundary between two groups of texts. But because these models are nearly as complex as the actual social boundaries at issue, they also leave a lot of explanatory work to the interpreter.
\b0 \'94 (81)\
\
\'93I have found that the clearest and liveliest way to explicate a model is to read a few passages over its shoulder.\'94 (82)\
This is also very rhetorically effective \'97 looking at passages and bolding/italicising the particular words the algorithm is responding to.\
None of this is relevant to my own work, though I do enjoy it\
\'93the obscure poets in our random sample lean toward abstraction and positive sentiment, whereas reviewed poets emphasize physical description\'97 especially of colors, nature, and the human body. \'85 All of this boils down to a fairly clear contrast between embodied lyric subjectivity and an older mode of poetic authority that is more didactic, sentimental, and collective. We may imag-ine that the struggle between these modes was resolved once and for all in Romanticism, but in reality the older mode persisted, and elite poetic culture continued to be de
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ned by an ever 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ercer rejection of it, all the way through the early twentieth century.\'94 (84)\
\
\'93Models trained on a quarter century of 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction are right (on average) about 
\f2 71%
\f0  of the volumes in the whole century; they lose only 
\f2 1
\f0 .
\f2 5%
\f0  accuracy compared to a model trained on everything. Models trained on a quarter century of poetry are right about 
\f2 75
\f0 .
\f2 9%
\f0  of the volumes in the poetry data set\'97 a bigger loss (of 
\f2 4%
\f0 ), since models of poetic prestige were more accurate to begin with. But accuracy is still durable enough to suggest that 
\b the standards that persist for twenty- 
\f2\b0 fi
\f0\b ve years will remain largely the same for the rest of the century. 
\f2\b0 Th
\f0 is gives us a rough and ready answer to the question posed in this section: How quickly does reception change? At the boundary we model here (getting reviewed in selective periodicals), the standards we can model at all seem to have changed rather slowly.\'94 (90)\
\
\'93
\b if opinions about poetry are really more volatile than opinions about 
\f2\b0 fi
\f0\b ction, that\'92s something literary historians should know
\b0 .\'94 (91%)\
\
\'93In short, I am not proposing a monocausal explanation for literary change. Literature moves in a direction shaped by many factors at once. What we see in any individual model is a projec-tion of the actual, multidimensional vector of change onto a sim-pler, one- dimensional axis of measurement; it is, so to speak, one component of the vector.\'94 (92)\
\'93
\b We might speculate, for instance, that standards tend to drift upward because critics and authors respond directly to pressure from reviewers or because they imitate
\b0 , and slightly exaggerate, the standards already implicit in prominent examples. In that case, synchronic standards would produce diachronic change.
\b  But causality could also work the other way
\b0 : a long- term pattern of diachronic change could itself create synchronic standards, 
\b if readers in each decade along the way formed their criteria of literary distinction partly by contrasting the latest thing to the embarrassing past
\b0 . In fact, causal arrows could run in both of these directions\'94 (93)\
\'93It is interesting, for instance, that predicted probabilities of review correlate with au-thors\'92 dates of birth more strongly than they correlate with publi-cation dates. 
\f2 Th
\f0 is detail suggests that the causal processes responsible for change are located fairly early in an author\'92s life, and it may hint that authors imitate prestigious examples.\'94 (93)\
\'93
\b Nor do we actually need a causal explanation of this phenomenon to see that it could have far- reaching consequences for literary history
\b0 .
\b  
\f2\b0 Th
\f0\b e model I have presented already suggests that some things scholars tend to describe as rejections of tradition\'97 modernist insistence on the concrete image, for instance\'97 are better explained as continuations of a long- term trend
\b0 , guided by established standards.\'94\
\
Ah: 
\b I\'92m not sure it\'92s fair to say that 
\i \cf3 literature
\i0 \cf3  changes at all. New works of literature comes into being: they are presumably related to previous works of literature. No singular thing called Literature exists.\
\

\b0 \'93even when a model knows only about the language of the work, it is possible that predictions about reception could seem accurate only because they were tacitly based on the depressingly reliable assumption that works by Americans, or women, wouldn\'92t get reviewed.Problems of this kind are becoming important in twenty- 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 rst- century life, where they are often diagnosed as \'93algorithmic bias.\'94 \'85 In historical inquiry, the same problem emerges, but bias may not be exactly the right word to apply in this context. At any rate, historians are interested in the intersection of social preferences; it is not an aspect of the past that we simply factor out. It is quite possible, for instance, that Britishness really was a signi
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 cant component of literary prestige in nineteenth- century America. A model of literary culture that covered its eyes to avoid seeing that preference wouldn\'92t represent the period. On the other hand, historians do want to know when one so-cial category de
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 nes another. For instance,
\b  if a model of prestige turned out to be mostly reducible to Britishness, plus masculin-ity, that\'92s something we would want to acknowledge
\b0 . So without forcing our sample of the past to be unrealistically balanced, 
\b we would like to have some way to measure the e
\f2\b0 ff
\f0\b ects of imbalances
\b0 . Fortunately, quantitative methods make it easy to look at the same evidence from several di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent angles and measure the interactions between social categories.\'94 (94)\
\
\'93In our data set, women are underrepresented, contributing only 
\f2 38%
\f0  of the volumes in 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction and 
\f2 25%
\f0  in poetry. Just as importantly, they are distributed a little unequally across the re- / viewed and random samples\'97 slightly more likely than men to be reviewed in poetry and signi
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 cantly less so in 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 is imbalance raises the possibility that our models of \'93prestige\'94 might be leaning on gender as a clue.\'94 (94-5)\
Tests by seeing if gender-balanced samples are less accurate \'97 only slightly less accurate\
\'93
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 is is not to deny that women writers confronted barriers and were judged unequally; their sheer underrepresentation in the data set, by itself, is an eloquent fact. But the criteria of prestige that we can model using textual evidence don\'92t seem mostly reducible to gender.\'94 (95)\
\'93the prestige of British poetry is the only case I can 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 nd where authorial demo-graphics clearly distort our model of prestige. Rather than being a mere sampling error, I suspect this represents a real association between nationality and poetic capital. But more research would be needed to say for sure\'94 (96)\
\
Separating the Axes of Popularity and Prestige\
\'93It seemed reasonable to hypothesize that serious literary writing would de-velop its own idiom, diverging from the quicker patter of (say) detective and adventure 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction. If so, models of prestige should get more accurate over time, as it became easier to distinguish high literary culture from the rest of the literary 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 eld\'94 (96)\
\'93
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e pattern I actually found was subtler and more complex. \'85 
\b Instead of imagining that literature became more strongly sorted along a single axis
\b0  (separating elite literary taste from mass culture) 
\b we should imagine two largely parallel axes of distinction that slowly unfold to become perpendicular
\b0 .\'94 (96)\
\
\'93within the random sample, I discovered an even deeper divide between works that were left out of serious reviewing because they seemed too sensational or popular and works left out because they were merely obscure.\'94 (97)\
\'93I may not have fully appreciated this di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erence at the beginning of the experiment. But 
\b one learns a lot, informally, while sampling hundreds of books from the depths of a library
\b0 \'94 (97)\
\
Looked at sales \'97 to replicate Bourdieu\'92s approach of separating economic and cultural capital. Similar to Stanford Literary Lab, but with different metrics \'97 Stanford used academic citations for cultural capital, and copies in libraries for economic capital. (98)\
Underwood uses bestseller lists for popularity, partly interpreted with empirical Bayes. (99)\
\
\'93Literary prestige and market success did not become incompatible, but they did lose their tight correlation.\'94 (101) Even this I think may really be a shift in our assumption that prestige is reflected in reviewing??\
\'93
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e real change is better described as diversi
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 cation. Where the mid- nineteenth- century map could almost reduce into a single axis (prominence versus obscurity), the mid- twentieth- century map really has to be characterized using two separate dimen-sions.\'94 (103)\
\
\'93
\b Distant readers are sometimes accused of laboriously proving things that other critics already suspected.
\b0  I have resisted that argument 
\f2 \cf4 fi
\f0 \cf3 ercely when I think it is hindsight bias. But in this section of the book, I would acknowledge it is largely true. Many / observers\'97 all the way back to George Gissing\'97 have implied that commercial success and literary judgment somehow parted company in the second half of the nineteenth century or the 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 rst half of the twentieth. 
\b I set out to con
\f1\b0 \uc0\u57358 
\f0\b rm that hypothesis not because I really had much doubt about it but because I wanted to see whether a phenomenon like that could be traced with quan-titative models.
\b0 And even when a model basically con
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 rms a well- established hunch, we are likely to learn something along the way. 
\b In this case, the division I had expected to 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u57358 
\f0\b nd turned out to be sub-tler and more complex than I began by assuming.
\b0  Instead of Huyssen\'92s emerging \'93gap between high art and mass culture,\'94 I found something more like a slight unfolding of previously parallel axes.
\f1 \uc0\u57347 \u57350 
\f0  I can also say with considerable con
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 dence now that the change was gradual. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e evidence uncovered here might even allow a skeptic to raise questions about the theory I initially borrowed from Pierre Bourdieu. His assumption that economic and cultural capital can be treated as separate axes of distinc-tion is clearly well suited to twentieth- century culture. But there could be some risk of anachronism in projecting it back onto a nineteenth- century cultural 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 eld where those aspects of promi-nence were less independent.\'94 (103-4)\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf3 Th
\f0\b e Narrative Challenge of Long Timelines\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf3 \'93Literary judgment is never easy to predict; the models described in this chapter range from only 
\f2 72
\f0 .
\f2 5%
\f0  to 
\f2 83%
\f0  accurate. But the part of reception that can be predicted at all is predicted by models that change relatively little from the 
\f2 1850
\f0 s through the 
\f2 1940
\f0 s. Moreover, a large component of the change that does take place appears to have a clear long- term social rationale. Poetry and 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction both move steadily in the direction of prevailing critical standards. Poetry apparently moves twice as fast as 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 ere may be a scholar somewhere who expected to see all this, but I confess that I didn\'92t. 
\b I believed the histories that taught me to interpret the last two hundred years as a series of con
\f1\b0 \uc0\u57348 
\f0\b icts between roughly generational literary movements, separated by periods of stability
\b0 .\'94 (105)
\b \

\b0 \'93
\f2 \cf4 Th
\f0 \cf3 eory guides empirical inquiry, but new empirical results should also eventually reshape theory. 
\b So what theoretical infer-ences might we draw from this chapter\'92s models of literary pres-tige?
\b0  \'85 On the other hand, when we discover unexpected evidence, we should pause to review our epistemological strategies, because some of them are probably responsible for the blind spot that has just been exposed.\'94(105)\
\'93
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 ere are still moments of sudden change in the picture: in chapter 
\f1 \uc0\u57370 
\f0 , for instance, we found that the detective story emerged just as suddenly as histories centered around Edgar Allan Poe have suggested. 
\b So numbers can reveal sudden changes, where history contains sudden changes. But numbers also reveal a host of slower changes that our existing histories have failed to describe
\b0 .\'94 (106)\
\'93
\f2 Th
\f0\b e deeper problem is that, for the last sixty or seventy years, we have assumed that literary history can only be interesting and edifying insofar as it is a story about con
\f2\b0 fl
\f0\b ict.
\b0 \'94(106)\
\
\'91Instead, we see the whole literary 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 eld move slowly in the same direction, guided by well- established, broadly shared standards. \'93Do people like poetic diction that\'92s concrete and tinged with melancholy?\'94 writers seem to re
\f1 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 ect. \'93Very well, I\'92ll write poetry that is concrete and melancholy\'97 but even more so!\'94 
\f2 Th
\f0\b e historical power of \'93even more so\'94 needs broader recognition
\b0  than literary critics have given it. When we are reasoning cynically about genre 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ction and movie pitches, we recognize the iron grip of this principle. \'93Even more so\'94 explains how a single gritty reboot that makes money can doom us to a long sequence of ever- grittier reboots. But for some reason, historians of high literary forms have ignored that kind of momentum, preferring to suggest instead that change is driven by overt aesthetic debate or covert ideological con
\f1 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 ict.\'94(107)\
\'93Sometimes the forward motion of a train has nothing to do with the people having a 
\f2 fi
\f0 st
\f2 fi
\f0 ght on top of it.\'94 (108)\
\
\'93In par-ticular, we need better ways to narrate slow change. Scholars are already aware that many aspects of literary judgment change slowly. I
\b n choosing exemplary works for syllabi, we tacitly acknowledge an axis of distinction that can outlast ephemeral movements and periods.
\b0  But we keep this quality of exemplarity separate from the normative standards that organized a book\'92s reception by its contemporaries. At any rate, we are not good at explaining how they intersect. Scholars whose research is char-acterized by a 
\f1 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 ercely local historical relativism will switch gears suddenly when discussing syllabi in order to say that a book they have chosen is just better written in some timeless sense than an alternate example of the same movement. 
\f1 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e Paterian no-tion that we are choosing an example \'93which expresses most ad-equately this or that special manifestation\'94 of beauty has always made a thin cover story for the contradiction.\'94 (108)\
\'93Instead of treating exemplarity as a principle separate from history, we need to develop a larger scale of historicism, able to acknowledge that our own aesthetic preferences are directly pro-duced by and still implicated in the changes under discussion.\'94 (108)\
\'93In short, 
\b this chapter claims to expose a problem in our current approach to literary history.
\b0  If I am right,
\b  an important component of change spreads out across a longer arc than our theories and narrative strategies have been able to reveal
\b0 . But I don\'92t claim to have resolved the problem, either intellectually or as a matter of narrative craft.\'94 (109)\
\'93Whole books could be written to explore that topic. 
\f2 Th
\f0 ose books will have to be written and reviewed and critiqued before we can say that we fully understand the transformation of literature across a long timeline. After that foundation has been laid, we may be able to write more satisfying historical narratives.\'94 (109)\
\'93I can imagine a more 
\f1 \uc0\u57348 
\f0 exible mode of narration that would trace di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent wavelengths of change using models of di
\f1 \uc0\u57349 
\f0 erent sizes. A literary historian might close- read passages not just to illustrate the models but to explain transitions between them. \'85 But narratives of that kind may have to emerge from a process almost as slow and collective as literary history itself. 
\f2 \cf4 Th
\f0 \cf3 e introductions to our anthologies didn\'92t acquire their casual con
\f2 \cf4 fi
\f0 \cf3 dence overnight; they are condensed summaries that build on two centuries of bibliography and debate. New quantitative methods will initially disrupt that con
\f2 \cf4 fi
\f0 \cf3 dence, reopen debate, and create aesthetic problems for literary historians. We may have to spend another decade or two checking our assumptions and getting our facts right before we are ready to put things back together again in a composed and elegant way.\'94 (110)\
\
}