{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The virtue presented in 
\i Wakefield
\i0  seems calculated for readers to enjoy identifying with Primrose\'92s clear moral superiority. \cf0 \cb1 Despite its escalating cavalcade of miseries, which to modern readers take on a comic tone in their excesses, the novel presents no conflict. Primrose\'92s path to virtue is always clear to him. Accordingly, even as he complains that he is too old and injured to journey through the snow to debtor\'92s prison in the middle of the night, he instructs his family to prepare for their relocation as quickly as possible, confident that he has identified the only correct course of action and eager to pursue it immediately. The clarity of his moral purpose allows Primrose a righteousness which\cf2 \cb3  is obnoxious when we disagree with him, but to a sympathetic reader can provide the satisfaction of vindication.\
That 
\i Wakefield
\i0  is aimed at a largely comfortable audience, but one interested in imagining its own discomforts, is suggested in the prison conversion sequence, in which t\cf0 \cb1 he narrative emphasis in always on Primrose\'92s personal nobility, rather than his message. He describes in extensive detail four different tricks played upon him by prisoners who mock his sermon, and assures us that he \'93took no notice of all that this mischievous group of little beings could do,\'94 but none of the sermon itself is included; the reader, presumably, already knows his moral message. The scene is thus of a very different nature than the prison conversion in Hannah More\'92s 
\i The Two Shoemakers
\i0 , which contains a detailed religious message urging personal reform. The differing emphasis reinforces 
\i Wakefield
\i0 \'92s distance from the sufferings it claims to provide a solution to: More\'92s 
\i Cheap Repository Tracts
\i0 , if they did not circulate within prisons, were nonetheless intended to reach those for whom prison was a very near concern \'97 whereas the sermon Goldsmith 
\i does
\i0  include in chapter 27 is a philosophical argument for legislative reform of the prison system, aimed at those who cause rather than endure imprisonment.}