{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Primrose delivers this sermon, and then immediately in the next chapter the \cf0 \cb1 novel proceeds to provide all of the pleasures and rewards which it has lectured readers not to expect. Sir William Thornhill arrives as a messianic figure who has been watching the Primrose family in mortal guise and will now administer wide-reaching justice. This incongruous reversal of fortune may, perhaps, be generously interpreted as a \'93preview\'94 of the terms of divine justice, with an important reminder regarding mercy. The novel\'92s religious message defers all punishment to the afterlife, and holds that no one is past reform, and so it stymies any thirst for revenge among its readers. The con man who financially ruined Primrose\'92s family, for example, is promptly forgiven and embraced as a friend despite his lack of repentance. Squire Thornhill, who has tyrannized the Primrose family for most of the novel, is initially exposed and mocked \'97 several of his lackeys tell him to his face how much they dislike him \'97 but rather than being utterly ruined, he is sent to the country to live as the companion to a relative, \'93being very well liked\'94 and \'93learning to blow the French-horn.\'94 This narrative lenience present emotional difficulties to modern readers and may well have been important correctives for readers of the period. But it does not detract from the incredible happiness of the novel\'92s final chapters, which seem, awkwardly for its doctrine, to have decided not to make its readers wait until the afterlife to enjoy poetic justice.}