{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Project Gutenberg began in 1971 with one individual, Michael Hart, who did not begin with a specific project vision in mind. From the beginning, then, Project Gutenberg was not goal-oriented in the same way as the other resources under discussion. By this I mean that Project Gutenberg orients itself toward goals of a fundamentally different kind than the goals which structure other textual archives, not that it has no goal. Project Gutenberg is, in general, subject to being dismissed as unserious or lacking rigorous standards, but I argue that these dismissals come from a failure to recognize and respect the real goals, seriousness, and standards which drive the project. In the case of the project\'92s founding, that goal was not, as in the case of the other databases under discussion, to provide a particular kind of access to a particular kind of texts. Instead, the goal of Project Gutenberg was born from a moment of happenstance and nepotism by which Hart, a student at the time, was donated $100,000,000 of computer time on the Xerox Sigma V mainframe at the Materials Research Lab at the University of Illinois. As Hart described it, he \'93decided there was nothing he could do, in the way of "normal computing," that would repay the huge value of the computer time he had been given ... so he had to create $100,000,000 worth of value in some other manner\'94 (\'93History and Philosophy\'94). Rather presciently for 1971, Hart concluded that the greatest value computing would offer was the storage, searching, and retrieval of other materials. He therefore typed up and distributed the Declaration of Independence. This became the first text of what would eventually become Project Gutenberg. It might even be considered the first ebook (according to Lebert 2008). Project Gutenberg was certainly \'93the first information provider on the internet and is the oldest digital library\'94 (Lebert).\
\'93During the fist twenty years, Michael Hart himself keyed in the first hundred books, with the occasional help of others from time to time.\'94 (Lebert)\
\'93when we started, the files had to be very small as a normal 300 page book took one meg of space which no one in 1971 could be expected to have (in general). So doing the U.S. Declaration of Independence (only 5K) seemed the best place to start. This was followed by the Bill of Rights \'97 then the whole US Constitution, as space was getting large (at least by the standards of 1973). Then came the Bible, as individual books of the Bible were not that large, then Shakespeare (a play at a time), and then into general work in the areas of light and heavy literature and references.\'94 (Hart \'93History and Philosophy\'94) \'93That edition of Shakespeare was never released, due to copyright changes. If Shakespeare's works belong to the public domain, the comments and notes may be copyrighted, depending on the publication date. But other editions belonging to the public domain were posted a few years later.\'94 (Lebert)\
\'93When the internet became popular, in the mid-1990s, the project got a boost and an international dimension. Michael still typed and scanned in books, but now coordinated the work of dozens and then hundreds of volunteers in many countries.\'94 (Lebert)\
\'93In August 1989, Project Gutenberg completed its 10th book, The King James Bible, that was first published in 1611, with the standard text dated 1769. In 1990, there were 250,000 internet users, and the standard was 360 K disks. In January 1991, Michael typed in Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll (published in 1865). In July 1991, he typed in Peter Pan, by James M. Barrie (published in 1904).\'94 (Lebert)\
\'93By the time Project Gutenberg got famous, the standard was 360K disks, so we did books such as Alice in Wonderland or Peter Pan because they could fit on one disk. Now 1.44 is the standard disk and ZIP is the standard compression; the practical filesize is about three million characters, more than long enough for the average book.\'94 (Hart \'93History and Philosophy\'94)\
\'93Project Gutenberg gradually got into its stride, with the digitization of one book per month in 1991, two books per month in 1992, four books per month in 1993 and eight books per month in 1994. In January 1994, Project Gutenberg celebrated its 100th book by releasing The Complete Works of William Shakespeare.\'94 (Lebert)\
\'94The number of electronic books rose from 1,000 (in August 1997) to 5,000 (in April 2002), 10,000 (in October 2003), 15,000 (in January 2005), 20,000 (in December 2006) and 25,000 (in April 2008). \'85 The steady growth went on, with an average of 8 books per month in 1994, 16 books per month in 1995, and 32 books per month in 1996.\'94 (Lebert)\
\'93A fast growth thanks to Distributed Proofreaders, a website launched in October 2000 by Charles Franks to share the proofreading of books between many volunteers. Volunteers choose one of the books listed on the site and proofread a given page. They don't have any quota to fulfill, but it is recommended they do a page per day if possible. It doesn't seem much, but with hundreds of volunteers it really adds up.\'94 (Lebert)\
\'93If 32 years were necessary to digitize the first 10,000 books, between July 1971 and October 2003, 3 years and 2 months were necessary to digitize the following 10,000 books, between October 2003 and December 2006.\'94 (Lebert)}