{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I.I: \'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 "Something essential," said he to himself, "must be considered\'97something to prepare her for an hour like this. Can I then leave her to the charge of those who themselves never remember such an hour will come? Dorriforth is the only person I know, who, uniting the moral virtues to those of religion, and pious faith to native honour, will protect, without controlling, instruct, without tyrannizing, comfort, without flattering; and, perhaps in time, make good by choice, rather than by constraint, the dear object of his dying friend's sole care."\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj
\cf4 Dorriforth, who came post from London to visit Mr. Milner in his illness, received a few moments before his death all his injunctions, and promised to fulfil them. But, in this last token of his friend's esteem, he still was restrained from all authority to direct his ward in one religious opinion, contrary to those her mother had professed, and in which she herself had been educated.\
"Never perplex her mind with an idea that may disturb, but cannot reform"\'97were his latest words; and Dorriforth's reply gave him entire satisfaction.\
Miss Milner was not with her father at this affecting period\'97some delicately nervous friend, with whom she was on a visit at Bath, thought proper to conceal from her not only the danger of his death, but even his indisposition, lest it might alarm a mind she thought too susceptible. This refined tenderness gave poor Miss Milner the almost insupportable agony of hearing that her father was no more, even before she was told he was not in health. In the bitterest anguish she flew to pay her last duty to his remains, and performed it with the truest filial love, while Dorriforth, upon important business, was obliged to return to town.
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'94\
\
I.II: \'93
\f1\b\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 He knew the life Miss Milner had been accustomed to lead; he dreaded the repulses his admonitions might possibly meet; and feared he had undertaken a task he was too weak to execute\'97the protection of a young woman of fashion.
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj
\cf4 \'85\
\
Here, upon Mr. Dorriforth's return from his journey, preparations were made for the reception of his ward; her father having made it his request that she might, for a time at least, reside in the same house with her guardian, receive\'a0the same visits, and cultivate the acquaintance of his companions and friends.\

\b When the will of her father was made known to Miss Milner, she submitted, without the least reluctance, to all he had required. Her mind, at that time impressed with the most poignant sorrow for his loss, made no distinction of happiness that was to come
\b0 ; and the day was appointed, with her silent acquiescence, when she was to arrive in London, and there take up her abode, with all the retinue of a rich heiress.\
Mrs. Horton was delighted with the addition this acquisition to her family was likely to make to her annual income, and style of living.
\b  The good-natured Miss Woodley was overjoyed at the expectation of their new guest, yet she herself could not tell why\'97but the reason was, that her kind heart wanted a more ample field for its benevolence
\b0 ; and now her thoughts were all pleasingly employed how she should render, not only the lady herself, but even all her attendants, happy in their new situation.\
The reflections of Dorriforth were less agreeably engaged\'97Cares, doubts, fears, possessed his mind\'97and so forcibly possessed it, that upon every occasion which offered, he would inquisitively endeavour to gain intelligence of his ward's disposition before he saw her; for he was, as yet, a stranger not only to the real propensities of her mind, but even to her person; a constant round of visits having prevented his meeting her at her father's, the very few times he had been at his house, since her final return from school. The first person whose opinion he, with all proper reserve, asked concerning Miss Milner, was Lady Evans, the widow of a Baronet, who frequently visited at Mrs. Horton's.\
But that the reader may be interested in what Dorriforth says and does, it is necessary to give some description of his person and manners. His figure was tall and elegant, but his face, except a pair of dark bright eyes, a set of white teeth, and a graceful fall in his clerical curls of brown hair, had not one feature to excite admiration\'97yet such a gleam of sensibility was diffused over each, that many people mistook his face for handsome, and all were more or less attracted\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl260\qr

\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf4 [Pg 10]\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj

\fs24 \cf4 \'a0by it\'97in a word, the charm, that is here meant to be described, is a\'a0
\i countenance
\i0 \'97on\'a0
\i his
\i0 \'a0you read the feelings of his heart\'97saw all its inmost workings\'97the quick pulses that beat with hope and fear, or the gentle ones that moved in a more equal course of patience and resignation. On this countenance his thoughts were pourtrayed; and as his mind was enriched with every virtue that could make it valuable, so was his face adorned with every expression of those virtues\'97and they not only gave a lustre to his aspect, but added a harmonious sound to all he uttered; it was persuasive, it was perfect eloquence; whilst in his looks you beheld his thoughts moving with his lips, and ever coinciding with what he said.\
With one of those interesting looks which revealed the anxiety of his heart, and yet with that graceful restraint of all gesticulation, for which he was remarkable, even in his most anxious concerns, he addressed Lady Evans, who had called on Mrs. Horton to hear and to request the news of the day: "Your Ladyship was at Bath last spring\'97you know the young lady to whom I have the honour of being appointed guardian. Pray,"\'97\
He was earnestly intent upon asking a question, but was prevented by the person interrogated.\
"Dear Mr. Dorriforth, do not ask me any thing about Miss Milner\'97when I saw her she was very young: though indeed that is but three months ago, and she can't be much older now."\
"She is eighteen," answered Dorriforth, colouring with regret at the doubts which this lady had increased, but not inspired.\
"And she is very beautiful, that I can assure you," said Lady Evans.\
"Which I call no qualification," said Dorriforth, rising from his chair in evident uneasiness.\
"But where there is nothing else, let me tell you, beauty is something."\
"Much worse than nothing, in my opinion," returned Dorriforth.\
"But now, Mr. Dorriforth, do not from what I have said,\'a0frighten yourself, and imagine your ward worse than she really is\'97
\b all I know of her, is merely, that she's young, idle, indiscreet, and giddy, with half a dozen lovers in her suite; some coxcombs, others men of gallantry, some single, and others married
\b0 ."\
Dorriforth started. "For the first time of my life," cried he with a manly sorrow, "I wish I had never known her father."\
"Nay," said Mrs. Horton, who expected every thing to happen just as she wished, (for neither an excellent education, the best company, or long experience had been able to cultivate or brighten this good lady's understanding,) "Nay," said she, "I am sure, Mr. Dorriforth, you will soon convert her from all her evil ways."\
"Dear me," returned Lady Evans, "
\b I am sure I never meant to hint at any thing evil\'97and for what I have said, I will give you up my authors if you please; for they were not observations of my own
\b0 ; all I do is to mention them again."\
The good-natured Miss Woodley, who sat working at the window, an humble, but an attentive listener to this discourse, ventured here to say exactly six words: "Then don't mention them any more."\
"Let us change the subject," said Dorriforth.\
"With all my heart," cried Lady Evans; "and I am sure it will be to the young lady's advantage."\
"Is Miss Milner tall or short?" asked Mrs. Horton, still wishing for farther information.\
"Oh, tall enough of all conscience," returned she; "I tell you again that no fault can be found with her person."\
"But if her mind is defective"\'97exclaimed Dorriforth, with a sigh\'97\'97\
"That may be improved as well as the person," cried Miss Woodley.\
"No, my dear," returned Lady Evans, "I never heard of a pad to make straight an ill-shapen disposition."\
"Oh, yes," answered Miss Woodley, "good company, good books, experience, and the misfortunes of others, may have more power to form the mind to virtue, than"\'97\'97\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl260\qr

\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf4 [Pg 12]\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj

\fs24 \cf4 Miss Woodley was not permitted to proceed, for Lady Evans rising hastily from her seat, cried, "I must be gone\'97I have an hundred people waiting for me at home\'97besides, were I inclined to hear a sermon, I should desire Mr. Dorriforth to preach, and not you."\
Just then Mrs. Hillgrave was announced. "And here is Mrs. Hillgrave," continued she\'97"I believe, Mrs. Hillgrave, you know Miss Milner, don't you? The young lady who has lately lost her father."\
Mrs. Hillgrave was the wife of a merchant who had met with severe losses: as soon as the name of Miss Milner was uttered, she lifted up her hands, and the tears started in her eyes.\
"There!" cried Lady Evans, "I desire you will give your opinion of her, and I am sorry I cannot stay to hear it." Saying this, she curtsied and took her leave.\
When Mrs. Hillgrave had been seated a few minutes, Mrs. Horton, who loved information equally with the most inquisitive of her sex, asked the new visitor\'97"If she might be permitted to know, why, at the mention of Miss Milner, she had seemed so much affected?"\
This question exciting the fears of Dorriforth, he turned anxiously round, attentive to the reply.\

\b "Miss Milner," answered she, "has been my benefactress and the best I ever had." As she spoke, she took out her handkerchief and wiped away the tears that ran down her face.
\b0 \
"How so?" cried Dorriforth eagerly, with his own eyes moistened with joy, nearly as much as her's were with gratitude.\
"My husband, at the commencement of his distresses," replied Mrs. Hillgrave, "owed a sum of money to her father, and from repeated provocations, Mr. Milner was determined to seize upon all our effects\'97his daughter, however, by her intercessions, procured us time, in order to discharge the debt; and when she found\'a0
\i that
\i0 \'a0time was insufficient, and her father no longer to be dissuaded from his intention, she secretly sold some of her most valuable ornaments to satisfy his demand, and screen us from its consequences."\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl260\qr

\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf4 [Pg 13]\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj

\fs24 \cf4 Dorriforth, pleased at this recital, took Mrs. Hillgrave by the hand, and told her, "she should never want a friend."\
"Is Miss Milner tall, or short?" again asked Mrs. Horton, fearing, from the sudden pause which had ensued, the subject should be dropped.\
"I don't know," answered Mrs. Hillgrave.\
"Is she handsome, or ugly?"\
"I really can't tell."\
"It is very strange you should not take notice!"\
"I did take notice, but I cannot depend upon my own judgment\'97to me she appeared beautiful as an angel; but perhaps I was deceived by the beauties of her disposition."
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'94\
\
I.III: \'93
\f1\b\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 This gentlewoman's visit inspired Mr. Dorriforth with some confidence in the principles and character of his ward.
\b0  The day arrived on which she was to leave her late father's seat, and fix her abode at Mrs. Horton's; and her guardian, accompanied by Miss Woodley, went in his carriage to meet her, and waited at an inn on the road for her reception.\
After many a sigh paid to the memory of her father, Miss Milner, upon the tenth of November, arrived at the place, half-way on her journey to town, where Dorriforth and Miss Woodley were expecting her. Besides attendants, she had with her a gentleman and lady, distant relations of her mother's, who thought it but a proper testimony of their civility to attend her part of the way, but who so much envied her guardian the trust Mr. Milner had reposed in him, that as soon as they had delivered her safe into his care, they returned.\
When the carriage, which brought Miss Milner, stopped at the inn gate, and her name was announced to Dorriforth, he turned pale\'97something like a foreboding of disaster trembled at his heart, and consequently spread a gloom over all his face. Miss Woodley was even obliged to rouse him from the dejection into which he was cast, or he would have sunk beneath it: she was obliged also to be the first to welcome his lovely charge.\'97Lovely beyond description.
\fs22\fsmilli11200 \

\fs24 But the natural vivacity, the gaiety which report had given to Miss Milner, were softened by her recent sorrow to a meek sadness\'97and that haughty display of charms, imputed to her manners, was changed to a pensive demeanor. The instant Dorriforth was introduced to her by Miss Woodley as her "Guardian, and her deceased father's most beloved friend," she burst into tears, knelt down to him for a moment, and promised ever to obey him as her father. He had his handkerchief to his face at the time, or she would have beheld the agitation\'97the remotest sensations of his heart.\
This affecting introduction being over, after some minutes passed in general conversation, the carriages were again ordered; and, bidding farewell to the relations who had accompanied her, Miss Milner, her guardian, and Miss Woodley departed for town; the two ladies in Miss Milner's carriage, and Dorriforth in that in which he came.\
Miss Woodley, as they rode along, made no attempts to ingratiate herself with Miss Milner; though, perhaps, such an honour might constitute one of her first wishes\'97she behaved to her but as she constantly behaved to every other human creature\'97that, was sufficient to gain the esteem of a person possessed of an understanding equal to Miss Milner's\'97
\b she had penetration to discover Miss Woodley's unaffected worth, and was soon induced to reward it with the warmest friendship
\b0 .
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'94}