{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Over the past decade, I have gradually lost confidence that the broad outlines of the literary past are as well known as I once thought. As scholars have learned to compare thousands of volumes at a time, we have stumbled onto broad, century- spanning trends that are not described in textbooks and not explained by period concepts. It is becoming clear that 
\b we have narrated literary history as a sequence of discrete movements and periods because chunks of that size are about as much of the past as a single person could remember and discuss
\b0  at one time. Apparently, longer arcs of change have been hidden from us by their sheer scale\'94 (ix)\
\'93arguments limited by a single reader\'92s memory can\'92t reveal the largest patterns organizing literary history.\'94 (x)\
\
\'93
\f1 Th
\f0 e work described here owes something to twentieth- century projects like book history, stylistics, and the sociology of literature, as well as to the more recent fusion of those projects that goes under Franco Moretti\'92s term \'93distant reading.\'94\'94 (x)\
\
\'93
\f2 \uc0\u57375 
\f0 e second set of misunderstandings I want to address at the outset involves a polemical de
\f2 \uc0\u57358 
\f0 nition of \'93distant reading\'94 that Franco Moretti advanced about nineteen years ago. I have em-braced the term \'93distant reading\'94 because it is apt, and because I am wary of the academic tendency to simultaneously disavow and appropriate the past by rebranding it. (\'93Everyone knows that distant reading was na\'efve, but I have invented critical distant reading, which is quite another matter!\'94) Endless rebranding is tiresome. However, it needs to be said that the way to evaluate distant reading, in 
\f2 \uc0\u57370 \u57373 \u57369 \u57368 
\f0 , is to look at the results recently produced by a growing community of scholars\'97 not to stage a debate with a speculative rationale for this project that Franco Moretti put forward in the year 
\f1 2000
\f0 .\'94(xix)\
\
\
Moretti was not the 
\f1 fi
\f0 rst scholar to propose exploring the literary past with social- scienti
\f1 fi
\f0 c methods and digital texts. Similar projects, in
\f1 fe
\f0 ected by corpus linguistics, sociology, and book his-tory, were already under way in the 
\f1 1980
\f0 s and 
\f1 1990
\f0 s. 
\f1 Th
\f0 e project accelerated dramatically at the beginning of this century, fueled [start page xx] by a set of social and conceptual innovations that could support large- scale research (digital libraries, for instance, and machine learning). But few of those factors were visible to most literary scholars in the year 
\f1 2000
\f0 . Instead, 
\b distant reading was initially understood as an extension of the canon-expanding recovery projects of the 
\f1\b0 1990
\f0\b s. 
\f1\b0 Th
\f0\b is gave the enterprise a moral claim on scholars\'92 attention
\b0 . If you didn\'92t do distant reading, you were presumably ignoring the cries of thousands of volumes forgotten in \'93the slaughterhouse of literature.\'94
\f2 \

\f0 Nineteen years later, the project of large- scale literary history is still often called distant reading because the phrase is vivid and appropriate. But the project has outgrown the polemics that originally accompanied its name. For instance, Moretti\'92s emphasis on the moral urgency of recovery prompted many skeptics to reply that digital libraries themselves still exclude many volumes that are either lost or simply not digitized. 
\b No collection, however large, can save every work from the slaughterhouse. 
\f1\b0 Th
\f0\b is is true. It is also not an objection to contemporary practices of distant reading, which usually work with explicitly limited samples.
\b0  
\f1 Th
\f0\b e point of distant reading is not to recover a complete archive of all published works but to understand the contrast between samples drawn from di
\f1\b0 ff
\f0\b erent periods or social contexts.
\b0 \
In this and many other ways, distant readers and their critics are often simply talking past each other. Quantitative approaches to literary history have been quite productive, but the results they have produced are not the results predicted by their most notorious manifestoes. 
\f1 Th
\f0\b e di
\f1\b0 ff
\f0\b erences between the canon and the slaughterhouse, for instance, turn out not to be enormous. Prominent and obscure writers are often moving in roughly the same direction.
\b0  [Underwood cites \'93Canon/Archive. Large- Scale Dynamics in the Literary Field,\'94 Stanford  Literary Lab] But in expanding the scope of their analyses, distant [start page xxi] readers have stumbled onto long historical arcs that change what we thought we knew about both groups of writers, canonical and obscure.\
It is time for this conversation to refocus. Distant readers need new manifestoes that provoke critics to respond to what they have actually done\'97 which might be even more interest-ing than what they had promised to do two decades ago. 
\f1 Th
\f0 is book re focuses the conversation in one of several possible ways, by shifting emphasis from sheer archival comprehensiveness to the sweep of long timelines.\'94}