{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Smith aspired to a place in posterity, but 
\b her contemporary success failed to secure her a place within the newly-emerging national canon
\b0 . Whilst the absence of women poets from our literary histories has been a ubiquitous complaint, Smith was not entirely forgotten: her contribution was assessed in a variety of nineteenth-century anthologies, dictionaries and celebrations of \'91lost\'92 female talent. This essay will evaluate Charlotte Smith within these publications to reveal her colourful fate in posterity.\'94 (Duckling 203)
\b \
\
\'93Smith was excluded from Housman\'92s A Collection of English Sonnets (1835) on the grounds that her sonnets were \'91mawkish effusions\'92.\'94
\b0  (Duckling 205)\
\
\'93Because traditional literary history has customarily privileged male writers at the expense of female ones, for much of the last century and a half Smith (like many other women) was routinely relegated to the margins when she was remembered at all. Thus William Lisle Bowles was widely credited with resurrecting the sonnet with the publication of his 
\i Fourteen Sonnets
\i0  in 1789, a misperception to which Coleridge perhaps unintentionally contributed in the 
\i Biographia Literaria
\i0 , where he praises those sonnets without mentioning Smith, whose own sonnets predated Bowles\'92s by some five years and demonstrably influenced them. At the time, thought, many writers saw matters correctly\'94 (Behrendt 196)\
\'93Not surprisingly, few authors of the period wrote in much detail about Smith\'92s direct influences upon their works, although it is clear from sonnets like Bowles\'92s, Coleridge\'92s, Wordsworth\'92s, Opie\'92s, Hanson\'92s, Dark\'92s, Keats\'92s, and even Anna Seward\'92s that her influence was wide, formative, and powerful, just as it was in prose fiction for novelists like Austen, Radcliffe, Opie, Scott and others. Judith Stanton undoubtedly exaggerates matters, therefore, when she observes sadly of Smith that \'91already waning in her later years, the popularity of her works ended with her death,\'92 for, as noted earlier, her poetry continued to be reprinted through mid-century (including in Frederic Rowton\'92s notorious 1848 Female Poets of Great Britain), while there is no question that her life itself continued to hold real interest for many \'97 and especially for many women \'97 in the first several decades following her death.\'94 (Behrendt 201).\
\
\'93In English she returns again and again to Shakespeare, Milton, Pope, Thomson, Gray, Collins, Goldsmith, Sterne, and, her favourite contemporary poet, William Cowper. Among French writers her taste is highly eclectic, though she returns often to La Rouchefoucauld, Rousseau, and, especially, Voltaire\'85 Her Italian favourites are Petrarch\'92s sonnets and Mestasio\'92s operatic arias\'85 She knows no German, but is keenly aware of the distinctive place occupied by Goethe\'92s Werther in the literature of sensibility. There is one other literature in which she is not only proficient but, for a woman author, surprisingly forthcoming: Latin. She certainly admires Cicero, Horace, and Ovid, but she reserves a special place for Virgil.\'94 (Curran 176)\
\'97 Cf Guillory: she OUGHT to be succeeding on all the metrics for cultural capital, but gets left behind when we change those metrics..?\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'93In its fourteen essays, this collection illustrates Smith\'92s depth and versatility as an author. It offers varied and astute readings of her work as deeply informed by history, culture, and politics, and through Behrendt\'92s and Duckling\'92s essays on her posthumous reputation and her literary afterlives, it shows how Smith\'92s centrality transmuted into a marginality derived from cultural insistences on seeing her as a woman who wrote, rather than a writer who was female. Countering the few lingering descriptions of Smith as obscure or minor, the essays in this volume aptly demonstrate how seriously scholars need to treat her work, and how vital and central she is to our understanding of British Romanticism.\'94 (10)\cf2 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\'93As Mary Poovey has argued, the ultimate effect of the revolutionary decade was to set women on their journey towards the \'91Victorian pedestal\'92, as increasingly idealized imaged of femininity took hold: female artists were expected to embody purity and goodness in their art and in their lives. Concurrently, women writers were being marginalized by what Gary Kelly has described as a \'91remasculinization\'92 of literature and culture.\'94 (Duckling 208) Smith stopped being anthologized as a poet, and entered anthologies as a poetess.\
Brydges and Barbauld anthologize/praise Smith as an artist in a mixed-gender field 1808-1810 (though still in gendered terms). This shifts: Dyce (1825) and Rowton (1848) and Bethune (1848) and Adams (1857) anthologize in separate women-only collections, praising both her art and her life. Women anthologize her differently: Elwood (1843), Williams (1861), and Kavanagh (1862) see more literary importance.\
\'93From a critical perspective, Charlotte Smith lost intellectual ground by the end of the nineteenth century, but women\'92s poetry was still a commercial venture and her poems frequently appeared in popular anthologies.\'94 (Duckling 216). But Robertson\'92s 1883 poetesses anthology dismisses the poetry as unpleasant to read, even though Smith was admirable.\
More recent critical history: \'93In the early twentieth century, critical accounts focused on Smith\'92s contributions to the novel. In 1913, Saintsbury believed Smith was \'91something of a person in herself, but less of a figure in history, because she neither innovates nor does old things consummately.\'92 Even the first extensive study of Smith by Florence Hilbish, whilst highlighting many areas of innovation, arrived at the conclusion that she produced \'91little strikingly original\'92 material \'85 the twentieth century was not yet ready to truly appreciate Charlotte Smith. This is evident in Ernest Bernbaum\'92s / indifferent review of Hilbish\'92s work, which concluded that \'91much time and care have been devoted to it; whether deservedly, is perhaps questionable.\'92\
The feminist movement of the 1960s and 1970s generated a surge of interest in women\'92s writing, predominantly focused on the novel. Simultaneously, a revived interest in the historical context of literature enabled Bishop Hunt to demonstrate the influence of Smith on Wordsworth in 1970, although Smith remained a minor poet. By the 1980s the situation was changing rapidly. Perhaps this is because, in many respects, the critical climate began to reflect the same cultural preoccupations of Smith\'92s own age: a fascination with recovering the poetry of the past, a market predisposed to female anthologies and biographies, and a feminist interest in the plight of the woman in history. Smith had maintained a place in the popular female histories and collections in the nineteenth century, and had begun to be taken seriously by the academy in the twentieth century. In the 1990s, however, Smith enjoyed a popularity matched only during her own lifetime, with three separate reprints of the Elegiac Sonnets appearing during that decade. With the scholarship of Stephen Curran, and the academic anthologies of Roger Lonsdale, Jennifer Breen, and Andrew Ashfield (amongst numerous others), Smith became established not only as a prominent figure in the revised female canon, but also as a central figure in Romanticism. This is most clearly exemplified in the recent appearance of Jacqueline Labbe\'92s monograph on Smith, which explores Smith\'92s work beyond the constraints of gender and establishes her as a major influence on Wordsworth. As our definitions of Romanticism have been radically redefined, Smith may have finally achieved the winning combination of popularity and posterity.\'94 (Duckling 216-217)}