{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \'93ESTC\'92s most basic bibliographical function is to provide, for each edition, a description of the ideal copy, meaning the most complete and correct manifestation of that edition as the printer and publisher intended it\'94 (Tabor 369).\
\
\'93The Project staff found that many eighteenth-century books in hundreds of libraries around the world have never been / catalogued at all, or are described in a group heading,\'94 especially for single-sheet items (Korshin 210-211). \'93Panizzis \'91Rules' lead to confusing entries and filing for anonymous entries or for items with corporate authorship. For these, and many other related reasons, Alston and Jannetta decided to write their own cataloguing rules, allowing their entries eventually to be converted into machine-readable form, but differing slightly from the standards for machine-readable cataloguing devised in this country (Library of Congress MARC) and in the United Kingdom (UK MARC). Modern machine-readable cataloguing has been devised to deal with cataloguing new books and serials; the ESTC's cataloguing rules have been devised in such a way that a scholar anywhere in the world can tell, from the ESTC entry, whether the copy of the book inhis or her library is the same or different from the one listed in ESTC.\'94 (Korshin 211)\
\
\'93Because the ESTC was formed from three different projects over many decades, the existence of subject headings varies. For books that are from the periods 1475-1640 (from the original Short-Title Catalogue created by Pollard and Redgrave) and 1641-1700 (from Donald Wing\'92s short-title catalogue), subject headings exist. But subject headings were not initially created for the eighteenth-century records in the ESTC, and so subject headings rarely occur for the items in ECCO.\'94 (Karian, \'93Guide\'94 3)\
\
An Edition:\
\'93Because ESTC is a bibliographical database rather than a catalogue, strictly speaking, its records describe groups of copies,\'94 such as editions, \'93rather than specific copies,\'94 such as the Exeter Book (Tabor 369). The ESTC sometimes has separate entries for groups within an edition \'93when certain separately planned marketing units can be identified within the edition, such as reissues, imprint variants, and large versus regular-paper copies\'94 (Tabor 369). Or, in \'93the later eighteenth century, when reprints from standing type became more common, ESTC cataloguers have occasionally granularized down to the level of individual impressions\'94 (Tabor 369). Tabor and I both deem the term \'93edition\'94 a sufficient umbrella term \'93[f]or the purpose of this discussion\'94 (Tabor 369).\
\'93The first problem relates to the unit of classification. A clearly defined unit is necessary to ensure that a study of change over time is reliable and based on consistent terms. What is the unit that the ESTC uses? Scholars sometimes answer by using the terms \'93edition,\'94 \'93issue,\'94 or \'93title\'94 interchangeably. But since the ESTC does not rely in a consistent manner on any of these terms for its unit of classification, one should refer instead only to the ESTC record, a unit created by the ESTC and having no meaning outside the ESTC.\'94 (Karian 289)\
\'93For the most part, the ESTC contains a record for each issue\'94 (Karian 289) \'93Sometimes the ESTC contains additional records if there are multiple 
\i states
\i0  of an edition (a different state results from cancels or minor changes to the setting of type).\'94 (Karian 289)\
\
An Ideal Copy:\
\'93As additional reports of copies arrive, it may be that the ideal description must change in response. For instance, the existence of a half-title may only emerge on the evidence of the seventh copy reported. A half-title would then be added to the description of the ideal copy, and the six previously matched physical copies will receive notes recording that they are imperfect in this respect\'94 (Tabor 370).\
\'93In ESTC the matching process hinges on five points of identity: the title, as far as it is given by ESTC; the edition statement; the imprint, again as far as it is given by ESTC; the pagination; and the format\'94 (Tabor 370).}