{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 My own sliver of the ESTC was generously provided to me by the British Library in January 2017. It contains all items matching the query I specified, \'93(Words= alldocuments and W-year= 1789->1799 and W-Country of publica= enk),\'94 which requests all documents published between 1789 and 1799 (inclusive) with a place of publication encoded as \'93England.\'94 Running this search on the ESTC website at the time returned 52,001 records. The tools used to create the file, according to the librarian with whom I corresponded, returned 51,965 records, 36 records having gone missing; however, the file itself contains only 51,860, another 105 mysteriously lost. These 141 missing records are currently an unsolved mystery. My records come from the British Library\'92s ESTC database, rather than the STAR file. The corpus itself consists of a csv {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A283B37B-0E91-46C3-8E45-018ED038E6AD"}}{\fldrslt file}} with fifteen columns of information. The columns are: \'93Type of resource\'94 (\'93Monograph\'94 or \'93Serial\'94); \'93ESTC citation number\'94; \'93Name\'94 (e.g., of an author, editor or illustrator); \'93Dates associated with name\'94 (generally, the years they lived); \'93Type of name\'94 (\'93meeting/conference,\'94 \'93organization,\'94 or \'93person\'94); \'93Role\'94 (e.g., \'93author,\'94 \'93cartographer,\'94 or \'93bookseller\'94), \'93All names\'94, \'93Title\'94, \'93Variant titles\'94, \'93Place of publication\'94, \'93Publisher\'94, \'93Date of publication\'94 (a single year), \'93Date of publication (not standardised)\'94 (e.g., a year in roman numerals, or a date which includes a month or day), and \'93Publication date range\'94 (for serials). In other words, it includes the very basic information of author, title, publisher, and year, in a complex structure which belies the apparent simplicity of these \'93basics.\'94 Some of the ESTC records included in this corpus do not necessarily match my selection criteria (England, 1789-99), which is inevitably true of every corpus collected, and which I discuss in more detail in SECTION, Data Cleaning.}