# 1-2 page proposal
## State as clearly and as specifically as possible the scope and method of the inquiry as well as the relationship of the topic to present scholarship in the field.

My doctoral research will interrogate the critical assumption that the masses of popular Gothic novels (c. 1760-1840) functioned as cheap copies of critically-renowned originals. While the early Gothic novel is well-known to be characterized by excess—volatile emotions, exotic settings, baroque plots, and sheer quantity of publications—the critical conversation has thus far focused on only a small percentage of the hundreds of novels published under the aegis of the Gothic. The works of Ann Radcliffe and Matthew Gregory Lewis, in particular, are taken to be representative, but this focus tends to dismiss developments in the genre, and especially the contours of its popular consumption. If we wish, instead, to examine the Gothic on a scale commensurate with its consumption, we rapidly reach the point at which, as Franco Moretti has often noted, “reading ‘more’ seems hardly to be the solution” (55). My research will complement wide reading with a range of digital tools in order to compare critical opinions with a substantial body of texts beyond the canon. I am especially interested in overturning the association of male and female authorship with, respectively, traditions of horror and terror.

 For questions of gender and of genre, I begin by asking whether a distinction ought to be made before pursuing definitions. Modern critics and contemporary readers alike speak of the birth of Gothic as a male-dominated ‘school of Lewis,’ which horrifies readers by confronting them with grisly sights; by contrast, the female-dominated ‘school of Radcliffe’ drives readers to terrify themselves by imagining gruesome explanations for ominous secrets. The horror mode and the terror mode are discussed as two halves of a gendered binary. My current research at the University of Victoria, however, suggests that, while a male-dominated tradition of horror certainly exists, it is dwarfed by a non-gendered mainstream. During my doctoral degree, I will confirm and expand upon these findings
 
 During my doctoral degree, I will continue this research with the full texts of Tracy’s 208 Gothic novels. The first phase of my doctoral project will consist of building my corpus: many repositories of digitized texts provide access to page images that are well-suited to most scholarly use, but a corpus-based approach also requires machine-readable text files, generally produced from page images by optical character recognition (OCR) software. Unfortunately, OCR is prone to errors: although 162 of the 208 texts under consideration are readily available in digital formats, only 7 have error-free text files. A further 115 have text files of unreliable quality, and 40 have page images only (i.e., no downloadable text files).

The bulk of my analytical project will then be to build on this foundational corpus. I will continue my investigation of gendered trends in the Gothic, now paying attention to stylistics and form only analyzable once the corpus is in place. Applying the technical skills I have gained through UVic’s internationally-respected Digital Humanities Summer Institute, I will ask again whether men and women of the period wrote differently. I will be able to compare Lewis and Radcliffe’s works to a reference corpus of their apparent imitators. While I do not seek to question either Lewis or Radcliffe’s status as literary trailblazers, I do hope to form a more nuanced picture of their influence, and of the traditions in which they wrote, and my corpus of full texts will allow me to pursue a mapping of horror and terror that is currently largely speculative. For instance, it will be possible to test Frederick Frank’s Gothic genre classifications; it will be possible to create network visualizations to elucidate relationships between texts; if I am able to collaborate with a computer scientist during my research, it will be possible to put together a sample of the novels I have read and classified as training texts for topic-modelling approaches to identifying the genres of the remaining works.
* Most Frequent Word network mapping to see clusters of similarity
* I'd like to try an 'evolutionary theory' approach like Moretti's take on detective fiction, to examine the role of the explained supernatural


# annotated bibliography
## 10-15 items that register the methodological / theoretical / critical priorities of the thesis project

1. **Algee-Hewitt, Mark. "Acts of Aesthetics: Publishing as Recursive Agency in the Long Eighteenth Century." *Romanticism and Victorianism on the Net* 57-8 (2010). Web.** Algee-Hewitt undertakes a computational analysis of a large volume of eighteenth-century works that themselves express alarm at the rising volume of texts being produced in the eighteenth century, to find an emerging consensus that written texts had the power to affect not only their readers, but also other texts. Algee-Hewitt thus provides a model for using computational methods to narrow down an enormous field to a new body of texts (or text extracts) which can then be informatively close-read in response to a particular research question.

1. **Clery, E.J. *The Rise of Supernatural Fiction 1762-1800.* Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1995. Print.** Clery tracks the rise of supernatural stories in fiction, drama, and popular news, producing a history of the Gothic that is sensitive to its impact in varying literary contexts. Clery thus provides a model for accounting for the movement of ideas between generic forms, and touches upon many of the key incidents and texts of interest to the first half of my inquiry.

1. **Drucker, Johanna. *Graphesis: Visual Forms of Knowledge Production.* Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard UP, 2014. Print.** Although much of Drucker’s discussion of our contemporary relationship to visual interfaces is tangential to this project, her monograph includes a highly-relevant discussion of the use of data visualizations in varying disciplines. This discussion expands on her 2011 article “Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display” (Digital Humanities Quarterly 5.1) to highlight the importance of avoiding a false appearance of observer-independent objective truth in humanities visualizations. Her warnings will continue to shape my own creation and use of visualizations as I seek to make sense of my large bodies of information. **Robarts Stacks P93.5 .D78 2014X ; Victoria University E.J. Pratt Stacks P93.5 .D78 2014**

1. **Fischer-Starcke, Bettina. *Corpus Linguistics in Literary Analysis: Jane Austen and Her Contemporaries*. London: Continuum, 2010. Print.** The first half of this work introduces best practices for corpus analysis of literature, with an emphasis on theoretical frameworks regarding the subjectivity of analysis, the bias inherent in the selection of texts, and the interpretive limits of the results. The second half of this work compares Jane Austen’s Northanger Abbey to Austen’s other works and to a wider body of her contemporaries, producing both a useful case study and specific results of interest to my inquiry. Fischer-Starcke thus provides a model for my own application of corpus linguistics.

1. **Gamer, Michael. *Romanticism and the Gothic: genre, reception, and canon formation.* Print.** Gamer’s work provides a foundation for the non-digital elements of my inquiry, detailing the interconnectednesss of what is now seen as the separate categories of ‘high’ Romantic literature and ‘low,’ popular Gothic writing. "generic classification also depends upon the readers, publishers, and critics who ultimately determine a text's identity and value" ... "This is the first full-length study to examine the links between high Romantic literature and what has often been thought of as a merely popular genre--the Gothic. Michael Gamer analyzes how and why Romantic writers drew on Gothic conventions while, at the same time, denying their influence in order to claim critical respectability. He shows how the reception of Gothic literature played a fundamental role in the development of Romanticism as an ideology, tracing the politics of reading, writing and reception at the end of the eighteenth century."

1. **Garside, Peter et al., eds. *The English novel, 1770-1829 : a bibliographical survey of prose fiction published in the British Isles.* Oxford: Oxford UP, 2000. Print.** This monumental, comprehensive bibliography provides the titles and impressive bibliographical details for every work listed, and will provide my initial list of prose fiction works 1789-1816 to seek out.

1. **Lennep, William Van, ed. *The London Stage, 1660-1800: A Calendar of Plays, Entertainments & Afterpieces Together with Casts, Box-Receipts and Contemporary Comment.* 11 vols. Carbondale: Southern Illinois UP, 1960-65. Print.** Like the Garside bibliography of the novel, the last volume of this enormous comprehensive bibliography will provide me with the first list of the works I intend to examine in my much narrower chronological period.

1. **McCarty, Willard. “Knowing: Modeling in Literary Studies.” *A Companion to Digital Literary Studies*, ed. Susan Schreibman and Ray Siemens. Oxford: Blackwell, 2008. Web.** McCarty’s detailed consideration of models, which explores the implications of the maxim that “all models are wrong; some models are useful,” informs my understanding of the relationship between computational literary research and the mental modeling inherent to ‘analog’ literary research.

1. **Moretti, Franco. *Distant Reading.* London: Verso, 2013. Print.** This collection of essays recaptures the development in Moretti’s career of his theories of literary history as evolutionary and as an imbalanced center-periphery system of exchange, alongside his increasing use of computational methods that come to be known as ‘distant reading.’ Moretti’s interest in accounting for the “great unread” of literature, and his use of computational models to carry out comparative research, provides much of the theoretical background for my own methods. 

1. **Worrall, David. *Celebrity, Performance, Reception: British Georgian Theatre as Social Assemblage.* Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 2013 Print.** From Amy Garnai's review: The idea of “social assemblage,” originating in the work of philosopher Manuel De Landa, theorizes social structures and networks and the material forces and complexities that underpin them. Worrall adapts De Landa’s insights specifically to theatre with the proposition that “all physical spaces, locations and embodiments of performance are expressive and comprise population components within a connected social network or assemblage of production and reception." ... In its use of a methodological framework that is new to theatre studies, in its privileging of the quantitative methods of analysis associated with this theory, and especially in Worrall’s impressive historical research and thorough engagement with archival sources, Celebrity, Performance, Reception is essential reading for scholars of the Georgian theatre.

<!-- **Tracy, Ann B. *The Gothic Novel 1790-1830: Plot Summaries and Index to Motifs.* Lexington, Kentucky: UP of Kentucky, 1981. Print.** -->

<!-- Ward, William, ed. Index and Finding List of Serials Published in the British Isles, 1789-1832. -->

<!-- **Koch, Angela. “Gothic Bluebooks in the Princely Library of Corvey and Beyond.” *Cardiff Corvey: Reading the Romantic Text* 9 (2002): 5-25.** Includes lists of bluebooks in the collection, and a table of adaptations of novels into bluebooks. -->

# library requirements
* *17th and 18th Century Burney Collection Newspapers*: nearly 1 million pages from approximately 1,270 titles
* *Eighteenth Century Collections Online*:  more than 32 million pages from over 180,000 titles (200,000 volumes)

# language requirements
- Python
- statistics
- Javascript? to present results on the web

