{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 HathiTrust\'92s success in acquiring scholarly capital stands in interesting contrast with Project Gutenberg\'92s continued lack of cachet. Project Gutenberg is used in research with similar frequency to Google Books\'92 n-gram {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C91C6530-785C-41E2-AF76-CC7E8D70C0FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 tool,}} but unlike works based on Google Books, scholars always mention Project Gutenberg with a note of apology for not having found a better source.\cf0  \cf2 I\cf0 ts cultural capital as a resource lags far behind its \cf2 actual \cf0 use and utility\cf2 , likely, I argue, because its organizing principles are the \'91unserious\'92 ones of popularity and pleasure\cf0 . Project Gutenberg is easily conceived of as a haphazard source for materials, but unlike Google Books, Project Gutenberg actually does have selection criteria. Project Gutenberg will only collect public domain works which contemporary audiences might be interested in reading for pleasure. \cf2 This criteria\cf0  narrows the field substantially\cf2 ,\cf0  exclud\cf2 ing\cf0  works which have either ceased to be broadly interesting (as in the case of most forgotten fiction), or which w\cf3 ere \cf0 never particularly interesting (as in the case of almanacs and tax codes). Project Gutenberg includes 57,796 texts: far more than specialized scholarly archives like the Early Novels Database or the Shelley-Godwin Archive, but nonetheless an order of magnitude fewer than its more-voracious potential competitors. And, like smaller specialized scholarly archives, Project Gutenberg has tailored its holdings to make it easy for readers to read, and quite difficult for its collection to be applied to any other use. By tailoring the structure of the archive itself to its specific materials, these collections are able to thoughtfully achieve their aims \'97 but they also make it correspondingly difficult for users to achieve their own, different aims.}