{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red1\green24\blue55;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red230\green72\blue26;\red204\green102\blue255;\red195\green194\blue176;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c12941\c27843;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c92941\c37255\c12941;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c80784\c80392\c74510;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 <$Scr_H::2>
\f1\b\fs37\fsmilli18837 Abstract and Keywords\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa299\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 <!$Scr_H::2>
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14950 This chapter argues that relations between poetry and print in this period were uneasy. Poetry looked for freedom and expressivity; the book trade looked for a profit. But the consequence was a wonderfully varied output. Typography could be elaborate or chaste; format varied between the poles of dignity (the illustrated folio) and humility (the freely given-away slip); \'93topping\'94 booksellers developed alongside the Grub Street trade and provincial rivals or collaborators. It was the period in which English poetry achieved classic status, with a consequent stability and longevity but also with an impetus toward authorial revision.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa254\partightenfactor0

\fs25\fsmilli12707 \cf4 \cb3 Keywords:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/search?f_0=keyword&q_0=poetry"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 poetry}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/search?f_0=keyword&q_0=print%20culture"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 print culture}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/search?f_0=keyword&q_0=typography"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 typography}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/search?f_0=keyword&q_0=format"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 format}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/search?f_0=keyword&q_0=book%20trade"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 book trade}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/search?f_0=keyword&q_0=canon"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 canon}}\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa299\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14950 \cf4 \cb3 The\'a0relationship between print and poetry in the period from\'a0
\i Paradise Lost
\i0 \'a0to\'a0
\i Lyrical Ballads
\i0 \'a0was an uneasy one. On poetry\'92s side, the link with a vocal performance and with the freedom and expressivity of manuscript circulation was still strong, and it was accompanied by a deep mistrust of compromise with the commercial demands of print.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/view/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199600809.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3#oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3-note-91"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11212 \cf5 \strokec5 1}}\'a0On print\'92s side, poetry was always going to be troublesome, because its frequent brevity and persistent demands on paper created difficulties in shaping it into something saleable. Prestige attached itself to the publication of great poems, but reference books, religious and political controversy, plays, and, late in the period, novels were a better financial bet. The sheer awkwardness of this relationship, however, generated a period of diversity and experiment.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa299\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 What could be done to represent the human voice through the resources of the compositor\'92s case was tried, though it risked charges of diseconomy and inelegance. The beauties of manuscript publication were mimicked in large illustrated and ornamented quartos and folios, while some of its casualness was echoed in slips and half-sheets. In a counter move, poems played with the bookishness of their embodiment, toying with the dignity of the Bible or the classical variorum, or with the antique in the form of prophecy or medieval lyrics. The book trade\'92s most significant innovation, alongside the magazine and the miscellany, was to make the poetry book a luxury item, paying its way by using up more and better paper than it strictly needed in order to command a higher price. Although this practice moderated in the course of the century, it remained an influence in poetry publication, as it does today. As Roger Lonsdale notes in his pioneering\'a0
\i New Oxford Book of Eighteenth-Century Verse
\i0 , late in the century booksellers turned poems themselves into vast reference collections, anthologizing the age\'92s verse and deciding which authors merited reprinting.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/view/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199600809.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3#oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3-note-92"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11212 \cf5 \strokec5 2}}\'a0My account will follow the eighteenth-century editors\'92 lead and, with some exceptions, focus on the poetry that they were already making canonical.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/view/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199600809.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3#oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3-note-93"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11212 \cf5 \strokec5 3}}\cf6 \cb1  (40)
\b\fs50 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl540\sa499\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \
\cf2 Format\cb1 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs22 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 A striking aspect of poems in print in this period is that they appeared in so many different shapes and sizes. The question of suitable format for poems was unsettled. In a period when histories were published in quarto or folio, it is no surprise that collections of verse should appear in large formats, but that a large number of individual poems should be published in folio is surprising to the modern reader, as is the balancing publication of occasional and polemical poems in slips and half-sheets. Searching the ESTC provides a general picture for the eighteenth century.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/view/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199600809.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3#oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3-note-103"}}{\fldrslt 13}}\'a0The smallest size used regularly was an eighth of a sheet, or the equivalent of one leaf of an octavo. There are few of these, and I suspect they were often given away\'97for example, a song from the theater where Henry Carey\'92s\'a0Honest Yorkshire Man\'a0(p. 45)\'a0was being performed\'97but there are more \'bcos, where Foxon distinguishes between regular quarter-sheets and slips, which were printed in four columns parallel with the short side of the sheet and commonly used for songs. These constitute around 2.5 percent of the total. The really popular format for short pieces, generally occasional, was the half-sheet, the equivalent of a folio leaf but issued on its own, unfolded. In the early decades of the century this format rivaled the folio and quarto for popularity at 13\'9615 percent of the total, but it dropped off later; the figure for the century is around 7.5 percent. Folios were high in importance in the early decades of the century, rising to 30 percent of the total in the 1730s, but they too fell away very rapidly after 1750 and for the final three decades barely amount to 2 percent. Quartos performed much more steadily, constituting 33 percent of the output overall and rising to more than 50 percent in the 1760s and 1770s, when they started to dominate the luxury book market. Octavos too were popular throughout the century, making up around 45 percent in total. They far outstripped duodecimos, which were very unpopular for poems in the early period, when they struggled to make 5 percent (44-45)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa299\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14950 \cf6 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs40 \cf2 \strokec2 Sales\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa299\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs29\fsmilli14950 \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 The popularity of large formats in the early eighteenth century doubtless reflects a desire for dignity, but another important reason for their prevalence was commercial. As David Foxon says of Pope\'92s folio\'a0
\i Windsor-Forest
\i0 \'a0and\'a0
\i Ode for Musick
\i0 , they were printed in \'93a format which would justify a price sufficient to make a profit\'97one shilling for\'a0
\i Windsor Forest
\i0 \'a0in five sheets, 6
\i d
\i0 . for the\'a0
\i Ode
\i0 \'a0in three.\'94{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/view/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199600809.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3#oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3-note-105"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11212 \cf5 \strokec5 15}}\'a0The basic problem was that demand for poetry was relatively low. Even poems that enjoyed critical esteem did not have big sales. The first edition of a poem by Pope could be expected to sell 2,000 copies, and those not necessarily all at once. Woodfall\'92s ledgers show him printing 2,000 copies of the\'a0
\i First Epistle of the Second Book of Horace
\i0 \'a0(1737), with 150 fine-paper copies in addition, while Bowyer printed only 2,000 copies of the\'a0
\i New Dunciad
\i0 \'a0(1742), which might have been expected to be a bestseller.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/view/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199600809.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3#oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3-note-106"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11212 \cf5 \strokec5 16}}\'a0And I don\'92t think Pope sold badly. Bowyer printed 2,000 copies of Gray\'92s\'a0
\i Trivia
\i0 , with 250 fine, in January 1716 and needed to print only 1,000 of the second edition in June. William Somervile\'92s\'a0
\i The Chace
\i0 \'a0was a popular success, running to eight editions between 1735 and 1749, but the first edition, printed by Bowyer, was a quarto of only 750 copies, with an additional 500 on royal paper, while the second edition dropped to octavo and was of 1,000 copies; only the third, again octavo, at 1,500 suggests marked success. The fourth authorized edition was not needed until 1743, and consisted of only 500 copies.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/view/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199600809.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3#oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3-note-107"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11212 \cf5 \strokec5 17}}\'a0It is worth\'a0
\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 (p. 47)\'a0
\b0\fs29\fsmilli14950 \cf4 \strokec4 noting that the sale of 6,000 copies of the octavo\'a0
\i Rape of the Lock
\i0 \'a0in six weeks was regarded as a phenomenal success.\cf6  (46-47)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs40 \cf2 \strokec2 The Luxury Poetry Book\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa299\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs29\fsmilli14950 \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 The credit for moving poetry to the luxury end of the book market, if it is credit, must go to Jacob Tonson, Sr. He saw that the bookseller\'92s financial problems could be solved not by printing as cheaply as possible, but by printing elegantly and charging a higher price.\
Tonson\'92s influence on the poetry book can be seen by comparing the first edition of\'a0
\i Paradise Lost
\i0 \'a0of 1667 with his edition of 1688. The first edition is printed without fuss, as though the poem is a slightly extravagant form of prose. The format is quarto, with the type set solid. Rules are used to surround the text tightly, with boxes to the upper and outer margins. The impression is of a religious text; the presentation, though without black letter and double columns, is not unlike that of the King James Bible.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/view/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199600809.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3#oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3-note-109"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11212 \cf5 \strokec5 19}}\'a0Tonson\'92s 1688 edition, undertaken jointly with Richard Bentley, is altogether more spacious, with Milton beginning to\'a0
\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 (p. 48)\'a0
\b0\fs29\fsmilli14950 \cf4 \strokec4 be treated as a classic. The edition was marketed by subscription, a fusion of patronage and publication; in buying the book in advance you supported it with cash and with your name. The 1688\'a0
\i Paradise Lost
\i0 \'a0is a folio in fours, much more spacious than the quarto first edition, and it is illustrated.\cf6  (47-48)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs40 \cf2 \strokec2 Conclusion\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa299\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs29\fsmilli14950 \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 The most remarkable aspect of poems in print in this period is their sheer variety, and it is worth noting in conclusion how much poems differed in themselves. Print might be expected to have the effect of stabilizing poetic texts, but it has its own inbuilt tendency toward variation.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www-oxfordhandbooks-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/view/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199600809.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3#oxfordhb-9780199600809-e-3-note-120"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11212 \cf5 \strokec5 30}}\'a0Even if stop-press correction, prevalent in the early period, is put aside, there are opportunities for change through later editions, the correction and expansion of existing works, and the addition of introductory and explanatory apparatus. The initiative for such changes may often come from the author, but the book trade clearly has an interest in generating new copy and new sales.\cf6  (53)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf4 Bronson, Bertrand H.,\'a0
\i Printing as an Index of Taste in Eighteenth-Century England
\i0 \'a0(New York: New York Public Library, 1963).\cf6 \
\
\cf4 Hunter, J. Paul, \'93From Typology to Type: Agents of Change in Eighteenth Century English Texts,\'94 in Margaret J. M. Ezell and Katherine O\'92Brien O\'92Keeffe (eds.),\'a0
\i Cultural Artifacts and the Production of Meaning: The Page, the Image, and the Body
\i0 \'a0(Ann Arbor: Univ. of Michigan Press, 1994), pp. 41\'9669.\cf6 \
\

\b \cf4 Raven, James, \'93The Book Trades,\'94 in Isabel Rivers (ed.),\'a0
\i Books and their Readers in Eighteenth-Century England
\i0 \'a0(London: Leicester Univ. Press, 2001), pp. 1\'9634
\b0 .}