{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c20000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Bourdieu - \'93while there are 
\i \cf2 _two_
\i0 \cf2  fields of production-- the restricted (High Art) and general (cultur\cf3 a\cf2 l commodities)-- there are 
\i \cf2 _three_
\i0 \cf2  principles of legitimacy specific to these fields\'94 aka 1, \'91\'93art for artists\'94 (\'93'art for art's sake\'92"); 2, art for the social elite, \'93\'91bourgeois' taste\'94; 3, "the principle of legitimacy which its advocates call 'popular\'92,\'94 mass consumption (330)\cf3 \
\cf2 \'93
\b \cf2 in fact 'aesthetic value' is nothing more or other than cultural capital
\b0 \cf2 ." (332)\
"To say that the aesthetic disposition determines the relative cultural capital granted to any particular work is to say that the act of judgment is the assignment, or even the 
\i \cf2 recognition
\i0 \cf2 , of cultural capital. Judgment is the act by which the aesthetic disposition expresses or externalizes itself, according to criteria which are relatively internalized, that is, neither capable of being fully rationalized, nor materially caused in the manner of a biological predisposition.\'94 (332)\cf3 \
\cf2 \'93As Michael Denning has recently reminded us, there are innumerable examples in working-class cultural forms of formal experiment and variation; it is precisely the experience of formal innovation which engages interest and admiration in these consumers, even though such manifestly aesthetic experience... may fail to be recognized 
\i \cf2 as
\i0 \cf2  aesthetic.\'94 (336)\
\'93
\b \cf2 the largest effect of the discourse of canonicity: the illusion that aesthetic experience is really 
\i \cf2 restricted
\i0 \cf2  to the experience of High Cultural works.
\b0 \cf2 " (336)\cf3 \
\cf2 "The recognition of cultural capital, otherwise known as aesthetic judgment, must deny, as a condition of its exercise, the ubiquity of aesthetic experience, the fact that such experience utterly pervades the field of cultural production." (336)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \'93Bourdieu's sociology radically historicizes the \'91aesthetic disposition' by insisting upon its determination within a class-structured society"
\b0 \cf2  (337)\cf3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'93What appears in the place of aesthetic pleasure in the dominant classes is the pleasure of _distinction_, pleasure in the possession of cultural capital." (333)\cf3 \
\cf2 \'93
\b \cf2 The idea of production for the producers
\b0 \cf2  (which by definition entails /consumption/ by the producers) 
\b \cf2 projects
\b0 \cf2  o\cf3 n\cf2 to a utopian screen 
\b \cf2 the disarticulation of cultural capital from\cf3  \cf2 the system of class formation
\b0 \cf2 , and thus from \'91distinction' based on inequality of access to cultural goods. Bourdie\cf3 u\cf2  calls this con\cf3 d\cf2 ition 'total autonomy from the laws of the market.' Such a condition does not, however, prophesy the disappearance of cultural capital. The universalization of restricted production would rather transform cultural capital into pure 'symbolic distinction.\'92\'94 (339)\cf3 \
\cf2 \'93Even were such an educational system no longer to regulate access to cultural capital in the grotesquely unequal way it presently does, cultural producers would still compete to have their products read, studied, looked at, heard, lived in, sung, worn, and would still accumulate cultural capital in the form of 'prestige\'92 or fame. But social distinctions reinstated on such an aesthetic basis would have to be expressed in social relations as distinctions in \'91lifestyle,' in other words a vast enlargement of the field of aesthetic judgment." (339)\
\'93What we call canon formation would then become a much larger part of social life, because not restricted to the institutions of the materially advantaged.\'94 (339)\cf3 \
\cf2 Bourdieu: \'93\'91[T]o deny evaluative dichotomies is to pass a morality off for a politics. The dominated in the artistic and the intellectual fields have always practiced that form of radical chic which consists in rehabilitating socially inferior cultures of the minor genres of legitimate culture. ... To denounce hierarchy does not get us / anywhere. What must be changed are the conditions that make this hierarchy exist, both in reality and in minds. We must\'97I have never stopped repeating it\'97work to 
\i \cf2 universalize in reality the conditions of access
\i0 \cf2  to what the present offers us that is most universal.\'92" (339-340)\cf3 \
\cf2 "In a culture of such universal access, canonical works could not be experienced as they so often are, as lifeless monuments, or as proofs of class distinction. Insofar as the debate on the canon has tended to discredit aesthetic judgment, or to express a certain embarrassment with its metaphysical pretensions and its political biases, it has quite missed the point. 
\b \cf2 The point is not to make judgment disappear but to reform the conditions of its practice
\b0 \cf2 . If there is no way out of the game of culture, then, even when cultural capital is the only kind of capital, there may be another kind of game, with less dire consequences for the losers, an 
\i \cf2 aesthetic
\i0 \cf2  game. 
\b \cf2 Socializing the means of production and consumption would be the condition of an aestheticism unbound, not its overcoming.
\b0 \cf2  But of course, this is only a thought experiment." (340)\
}