{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Smith is also self-consciously navigating a series of questions about genre that interest me, namely, the fact that not everybody reads everything, or for the same reasons \'97 she is not the same author from genre to genre\cf3 .\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'93Very few Smith scholars work actively on both the novels and the poetry, and consequently we have been learning about two separate Smiths, each closely linked to the genre she writes in, neither closely linked to the other. Because the novel during the Romantic period is undergoing an extraordinary amount of change and innovation, as it moves closer to its modern form, editors of the novels (myself included) tend to focus on Smith\'92s techniques and innovations, her use of tropes and themes, her facility with genres and description. Conversely, because Romantic poetry in the Smithian tradition is so closely tied up with explorations of selfhood and subjectivity, memory and a personalized past, editors of the poetry tend to present it as reflective of a personalized state of mind, of \'91woman\'92s\'92 experience, treating its manifold themes and narratives as, finally, reducible to and manifested from Smith\'92s life. 
\b Is it all to do with inherent qualities of genre, or is it more to do with the expectations we as readers bring to different genres?
\b0  Genre, it seems, carries a greater force in constructing our preconceptions of identity than has been recognized, and Smith is a case in point, a case we can crack by studying closely Smith\'92s style and techniques 
\i across
\i0  genres.\'94 (\cf4 Labbe \cf0 5)\cf3 \
Is poet-Smith different or separate from novelist-Smith of didactic-Smith? If so, does that tell us something about poetry or novels, aesthetically? About the marketing or consumption of poetry or novels?\
One of my core interests is grappling with heterogenous groups of texts, which are usually examined each in isolation, and trying to bring them together. This might be one of those things that people don\'92t do because it\'92s a bad idea, rather than because it\'92s hard; maybe there aren\'92t any meaningfully questions that can be posed about All Writing. But I still wonder: are these things as separate from each other as we assume? Are we 
\i really
\i0  dealing with different Smiths, or do we just
\i  expect to find 
\i0 different Smiths?}