{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red85\green117\blue151;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c40392\c53725\c65882;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Commenting on the potential impact of their enumerative bibliography of women in book history, Coker and Ozment say \'93bibliographic lists become the first step towards canon development, and from there to actual disciplinary creation" (6). \
\
\'93Gathering sources around an idea for which there is no critical consensus is a deeply ideological act that can influence how users will conceptualize the field moving forward. All of our subfield editorial choices are political, even more so than the explicit idea of a bibliography that is focused on women.\'94 (Coker and Ozment 11)\
\
\'93
\f1\fs28\fsmilli14400 \cf3 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 It is true that no database, including the\'a0
\i WBHB
\i0 , is perfect in its comprehensive surveillance of its intended topic, despite its best efforts. It is also true that the ways in which the\'a0
\i MLA
\i0 \'a0indexes sources inhibits visibility when it comes to English women and the book trades and authorship. The disparity between the\'a0
\i WBHB
\i0 \'a0and the\'a0
\i MLA
\i0 \'a0suggests a key difference in indexing practices. According to its online guidelines, the\'a0
\i MLA
\i0 \'a0employs a very broad vocabulary of 68,000 words used by a team of professional indexers and selected field bibliographers [{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/13/3/000428/000428.html#FAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 FAQ n.d.}}]. The\'a0
\i MLA
\i0 \'a0also appears to not retroactively allow keywords to change (nor can we imagine many authors would find value in re-indexing dated scholarship). These are practical decisions, but they mean that listed sources do not always reflect how current scholarship is categorized and understood. Book history is an interdisciplinary field, so it is logical that authors and indexers may not always select the same terms that would link together studies that are truly on the same topics. Scholars may be participating in studies of book history implicitly rather than explicitly (as noted above), or pieces may have been published in an emerging discourse that now goes by another name. Since book history is a relatively new term for a broad and complicated field, it is not wholeheartedly embraced by its practitioners who may see the term as a needless derivative of historical bibliography, limited in its emphasis on the \'93book\'94 as a printed codex, oddly fetishizing the material in an increasingly digital world, or less precise for a dozen other reasons. In short, what the field lacks is a set of values that is reflected in a lack of a centralized taxonomy.\cf2 \'94 (25)}