{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The story of ESTC is one in which a closed ideal of authoritativeness is being relinquished slowly for the sake of more useful and modern qualities: evolution, accuracy, and depth. The printed versions of STC and Wing presented themselves as definitive bibliographies of English printing for the periods that they covered. Being native to the digital medium, by contrast, the nature of ESTC is that it is always a work in progress. What David McKitterick calls the \'91dispersed authority\'92 of the ESTC is represented by the existence of its daimon, a parallel database accessible only to the editors and librarians authorized to work on it, known as the STAR file.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up13 15 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \up0 This is the repository for all updates and queries, all doubts about the reliability of edition designations and library matches, and for some time now commentators have been calling for it to be made accessible to ordinary users.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up13 16 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \up0 At the time of writing, the ESTC21 blog indicates that this will soon happen: the catalogue is about to be redesigned so as to \'91harness user expertize to enrich data\'92.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up13 17 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \up0 The database will function increasingly as an \'91electronic hub\'92 capable of searching digital reproductions of texts, and moves will be made to improve the accessibility of ESTC data for recapture by other websites.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up13 18 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \up0 This brings us to the second reason for the ESTC\'92s preeminence. The hybridity of the resource ought to be its great weakness. The description of a typical copy from an edition in the upper part of its record is really a sort of ideal generalization, a specification that in fact describes many nonidentical objects. A thousand contingencies at the warehouse or the bookseller\'92s stall, at the binder\'92s shop or the library lead inevitably to variations within editions or impressions. So the authority of the upper record is under constant pressure from the material particularity represented by the lower part, the copies registered in the union catalogue. In fact, it is the pragmatic yoking of these two theoretically incompatible classes of information that gives the ESTC its versatility. The balance between ideal description and material referent is successful because this is true to ESTC\'92s nature as a bibliographical workhorse, focused on the business of practical specification. For my own part, I would be uncomfortable seeing the ESTC moving into the realm of content provision or text searching, because that balance and that focus would both be lost. They are essential to the identity of this indispensible public resource. 
\fs24 \cf3 (Bullard 750)}