{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93\'85one can certainly argue that the project is as old as Google itself. In 1996, Google co-founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page were graduate computer science students working on a research project supported by the Stanford Digital Library Technologies Project. Their goal was to make digital libraries work, and their big idea was as follows: in a future world in which vast collections of books are digitized, people would use a \'93web crawler\'94 to index the books\'92 content and analyze the connections between them, determining any given book\'92s relevance and usefulness by tracking the number and quality of citations from other books. The crawler they wound up building was called BackRub, and it was this modern twist on traditional citation analysis that inspired Google\'92s PageRank algorithms \'96 the core search technology that makes Google, well, Google.\'94 (\'93Google Books History\'94)\
\
2002: \'93A small group of Googlers officially launches the secret \'93books\'94 project. They begin talking to experts about the challenges ahead, starting with a simple but crucial question: how long would it take to digitally scan every book in the world? It turns out, oddly enough, that no one knows. In typical Google fashion, Larry Page decides to experiment on his own. In the office one day, he and Marissa Mayer, one of our first product managers, use a metronome to keep rhythm as they methodically turn the pages of a 300-page volume. It takes a full 40 minutes to reach the end. Inspired by the extraordinary digitization projects underway all around the world \'96 the Library of Congress\'92s American Memory project, Project Gutenberg, the Million Book Project and the Universal Library, to name only a few \'96 the team embarks on a series of site visits to learn about how they work. As part of this fact-finding mission, Larry Page reaches out to the University of Michigan, his alma mater and a pioneer in library digitization efforts including JSTOR and Making of America. When he learns that the current estimate for scanning the university library\'92s seven million volumes is 1,000 years, he tells university president Mary Sue Coleman he believes Google can help make it happen in six.\'94 (\'93Google Books History,\'94 2016)\
\
2003: The team works to develop a high-speed scanning process \'97 \'93A team member travels to a charity book fair in Phoenix, Arizona, to acquire books for testing non-destructive scanning techniques. After countless rounds of experimentation, the team develops a scanning method that\'92s much gentler than current common high-speed processes. \'85 At the same time, the team\'92s software engineers make progress toward resolving the tricky technical issues they encounter processing information from books that contain odd type sizes, unusual fonts or other unexpected peculiarities \'96 in 430 different languages.\'94 (\'93Google Books History,\'94 2016)\
\
2004: formal partnership with Bodleian library \'93to digitize the library\'92s incomparable collection of more than one million 19th-century public domain books within three years.\'94 (\'93Google Books History,\'94 2016)\
\'93In October, Larry and Sergey announce \'93Google Print\'94 at the Frankfurt Book Fair in Germany. The first publishers to join the program: Blackwell, Cambridge University Press, the University of Chicago Press, Houghton Mifflin, Hyperion, McGraw-Hill, Oxford University Press, Pearson, Penguin, Perseus, Princeton University Press, Springer, Taylor & Francis, Thomson Delmar and Warner Books. In December, we announce the beginning of the \'93Google Print\'94 Library Project, made possible by partnerships with Harvard, the University of Michigan, the New York Public Library, Oxford and Stanford. The combined collections at these extraordinary libraries are estimated to exceed 15 million volumes.\'94 (\'93Google Books History,\'94 2016)\
\
\'93Every weekday, semi trucks full of books would pull up at designated Google scanning centers. \'85 The books were unloaded from the trucks onto the kind of carts you find in libraries and wheeled up to human operators sitting at one of a few dozen brightly lit scanning stations, arranged in rows about six to eight feet apart. \'85 Each one could digitize books at a rate of 1,000 pages per hour. The book would lie in a specially designed motorized cradle that would adjust to the spine, locking it in place. Above, there was an array of lights and at least $1,000 worth of optics, including four cameras, two pointed at each half of the book, and a range-finding LIDAR that overlaid a three-dimensional laser grid on the book\'92s surface to capture the curvature of the paper. \'85 What made the system so efficient is that it left so much of the work to software. Rather than make sure that each page was aligned perfectly, and flattened, before taking a photo, which was a major source of delays in traditional book-scanning systems, cruder images of curved pages were fed to de-warping algorithms, which used the LIDAR data along with some clever mathematics to artificially bend the text back into straight lines. At its peak, the project involved about 50 full-time software engineers.\'94 (Somers)\
\
2005: \'93In keeping with our mission to organize the world\'92s information and make it universally accessible and useful, we donate $3 million to the Library of Congress to help build the World Digital Library, which will provide online access to a collection of rare and unique items from all around the world. We also extend our pilot scanning program with the Library, which includes digitizing works of historical value from the Library of Congress Law Library. Google renames \'93Google Print\'94 Google Books, which more accurately reflects how people use it. The team also responds to the controversy over the Library Project by engaging in public debate about its underlying principles.\'94 (\'93Google Books History,\'94 2016)\
Public debate: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://web.archive.org/web/20160204071159/https://googleblog.blogspot.com/2005/10/point-of-google-print.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 https://web.archive.org/web/20160204071159/https://googleblog.blogspot.com/2005/10/point-of-google-print.html}}\
\
2006: \'93We launch a series of product enhancements to make Book Search more useful and easier to use. First, we expand access to the public domain works we\'92ve scanned by adding a download a PDF button to all out-of-copyright books. A few months later, we release a new browsing interface that makes it easier to browse and navigate Book Search. The new interface is also accompanied by new About this Book pages which use Google algorithms to populate pages with rich related content on a book -- initially, related books, selected pages and references from scholarly works. In the fall, four new libraries join the Library Project: the University of California, University Complutense of Madrid, the University of Wisconsin- Madison and the University of Virginia.\'94 (\'93Google Books History,\'94 2016)\
\
2007: \'93Using the new UI as a launching point, we experiment with new ways for people to interact with books.\
Places in this Book: A mashup with Maps lets people browse books by locations mentioned in the text (later, we release an experimental KML layer for Google Earth that does the reverse -- the user picks a location, and we map books to it).\
Popular Passages: We create a new way to navigate between books, tracking the use of a single passage through a collection of books.\
My Library: We help people harness the power of Google search within their own personal book collections. Users begin to curate and share their personal libraries, reviews and ratings with others.\
New homepage (initially US only): We give people more jumping off points for exploring the books in our index.\
\'85 we add a \'93View plain text\'94 link to all out-of-copyright books. T.V. Raman explains how this opens the book to adaptive technologies such as screen readers and Braille display\'94 (\'93Google Books History,\'94 2016)\
\'93By December, the Book Search interface is available in over 35 languages, from Japanese to Czech to Finnish.  Over 10,000 publishers and authors from 100+ countries are participating in the Book Search Partner Program.\'94 (\'93Google Books History,\'94 2016)\
\'93In May, the Cantonal and University Library of Lausanne, and Ghent University Library join the Book Search program, adding a substantial amount of books in French, German, Flemish, Latin and other languages, and bringing the total number of European libraries partners to six. \'85  Over 10,000 publishers and authors from 100+ countries are participating in the Book Search Partner Program.  The Library Project expands to 28 partners, including seven international library partners: Oxford University (UK), University of Complutense of Madrid (Spain), the National Library of Catalonia (Spain), University Library of Lausanne (Switzerland), Ghent University (Belgium) and Keio University (Japan).\'94(\'93Google Books History,\'94 2016)\
\
The \'93Google Books History\'94 page ends with 2007, with the final words of \'93As we look to the year ahead, we continue to develop our technology and expand our partnerships with publishers and libraries all around the world. Stay tuned...\'94 but the page spent more than a decade with no further updates. Some time between August 2019 and March 2020, the page was edited so that it no longer had a year-by-year breakdown of milestones. Now, after briefly telling the anecdote about the 1996 origin of Google Books, the \'93history\'94 says \'94Fast forward to today:\
After more than a decade of evolution, innovation and strong partnerships, Google Books has helped to make more than 40 million books discoverable, in more than 400 languages.\
And we're not done -- not until all of the books in the world can be found by everyone, everywhere, at any time they need them.\'94 (\'93Google Books History,\'94 2020)\
\
2008, the year that Google stops being quite so proud of the rapid progress of Google Books, is also the year that they begin to face legal repercussions for their \'93scan first and ask questions later\'94 approach to mass digitization. Somers has characterized this process as equivalent to the burning of the library of Alexandria: \'93When the most significant humanities project of our time was dismantled in court, the scholars, archivists, and librarians who\'92d had a hand in its undoing breathed a sigh of relief, for they believed, at the time, that they had narrowly averted disaster\'94 (Somers).\
\
Wikipedia: \'93May 2008: Microsoft tapered off and planned to end its scanning project, which had reached 750,000 books and 80 million journal articles.[92]\
Wikipedia: \'93October 2008: A settlement was reached between the publishing industry and Google after two years of negotiation. Google agreed to compensate authors and publishers in exchange for the right to make millions of books available to the public.[9][93]\
Wikipedia: \'93November 2008: Google reached the 7 million book mark for items scanned by Google and by their publishing partners. 1 million were in full preview mode and 1 million were fully viewable and downloadable public domain works. About five million were out of print.[18][94][95]\
Wikipedia: \'93December 2008: Google announced the inclusion of magazines in Google Books. Titles include New York Magazine, Ebony, and Popular Mechanics[96][97]\
Wikipedia: \'93February 2009: Google launched a mobile version of Google Book Search, allowing iPhone and Android phone users to read over 1.5 million public domain works in the US (and over 500,000 outside the US) using a mobile browser. Instead of page images, the plain text of the book is displayed.[98]\
Wikipedia: \'93May 2009: At the annual BookExpo convention in New York, Google signaled its intent to introduce a program that would enable publishers to sell digital versions of their newest books direct to consumers through Google.[99]\
Wikipedia: \'93December 2009: A French court shut down the scanning of copyrighted books published in France, saying this violated copyright laws. It was the first major legal loss for the scanning project.[100]}