{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;
\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;
\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs22 \cf2 This is actually kind of how distant reading started? / There are histories of distant reading that lead to here]
\b0 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0  Distant reading is undergoing a shift away from its figurehead in Franco Moretti, who famously coined the original term \\cite\{Moretti:2000ul\}. If we wish to think about distant reading without Moretti, Ted Underwood and Rachel Buurma both provide valuable histories. Ted Underwood\'92s \'93Genealogy of Distant Reading\'94 presents a history of distant reading which is not for the most part centrally concerned with computers, and is therefore fundamentally distinct from concepts of \'93digital humanities\'94 \\cite\{Underwood:2017uc\}. In Underwood\'92s history, distant reading is \'93a tradition continuous with earlier forms of macroscopic literary history, distinguished only by an increasingly experimental method, organized by samples and hypotheses that get defined before conclusions are drawn\'94 \\cite\{Underwood:2017uca p.29\}. Underwood \'93tease[s] out the elided social-scientific genealogy behind distant reading\'94 \\cite\{Underwood:2017uca p.39\} to argue that the term \'93[d]istant reading was not coined to describe a radically new method. The first occurrence of the phrase, in [Franco Moretti\'92s]\cf3  \cf4 \'91\cf0 Conjectures on World Literature,\'92 seems in fact to describe the familiar scholarly activity of aggregating and summarizing previous research\'94 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C15250BF-B326-4BC8-A863-0672791467E9"}}{\fldrslt \\cite\{Underwood:2017uca p.9\}}}.\
Rachel Buurma\'92s history of Josephine Miles adds a specifically computational alternate geneaology for distant reading \\cite\{Buurma:2018wt\}. Miles is proposed as an alternative not to Moretti, but to Roberto Busa, who is often credited with the first large-scale computational literary study. Miles\'92 history, briefly, is as follows:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\li720\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 In the 1930s, as a graduate student at Berkeley, she completed her first distant reading project: an analysis of the adjectives favored by Romantic poets. In the 1940s, with the aid of a Guggenheim, she expanded this work into a large-scale study of the phrasal forms of the poetry of the 1640s, 1740s, and 1840s. In all of this distant reading work, Miles created her tabulations by hand, with pen and graph paper. She also directed possibly the first literary concordance to use machine methods. In the early 1950s, Miles became project director of an abandoned index-card-based Concordance to the Poetical Works of John Dryden. Partnering with the Electrical Engineering department at Berkeley, and contracting with their computer lab and its IBM tabulation machine, Miles used machine methods to complete the concordance. It was published in 1957, six years after she and several woman graduate students and woman punch-card operators began the work. It was thus begun around the time that Busa circulated early proof-of-concept drafts of his concordance to the complete works of St. Thomas Aquinas, and published 17 years before the first volumes of the 56-volume Index Thomasticus began to appear. 
\fs22 \\cite\{Buurma:2018wt\}\cf4 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f0\fs22 Buurma brings Miles\'92 history to our attention not simply because Miles predates Busa, as a correction of a minor matter of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://046A68E1-6A76-4160-BFC9-5342C8649654"}}{\fldrslt fact.}} Rather, Buurma emphasizes, Miles\'92 origin story for computational literary study \'93can stand as an example of how we might write a history of literary scholarship that does not center originality and individual accomplishment\'94 \cf5 (n. pag.)\cf0 . Unlike Busa, Miles not only gave authorship to the (female) graduate students who carried out much of the labour of creating the concordances, she also thanked and credited the (female) punch card operators who encoded the resulting {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A701FBB6-61C6-4088-B64D-AADB0D03C880"}}{\fldrslt data.}} Moreover, when talking of Penny Gee, one of the female staff members of the computer lab, Miles praises her as \'93\'91very smart and good\'92 and\'97most importantly\'97a true collaborator, as opposed to those \'91IBM people from San Jose\'92 \'85 \'91I\'92ve never been able to connect with them,\'92 Miles explains, \'91though I did with Penny Gee. She really taught me\'92\'94 \cf5 (n. pag.)\cf0 . Of the positive qualities highlighted here, only one, \'93smart,\'94 is traditionally valorized among literary critics: to be \'93good,\'94 a \'93collaborator,\'94 who can \'93connect\'94 and \'93teach\'94 \'97 as I will discuss more fully in section 1.3 when I turn to Eve Sedgwick\'92s critique of paranoid reading, these qualities are often seen as incompatible with the singular authority of the figure of \'91the critic.\'92 Miles\'92 work, too, struggled to find appreciation \'93among literary critics who viewed her datasets as merely preparatory to the true work of evaluation\'94\cf5  (n. pag.)\cf0 .
\f1\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::1>}