{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red15\green128\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Chapter 5, \'93Fictional Systems: Network Analysis and Syndication Networks,\'94 investigates fiction reprinting to explore the ways in which colonial literary culture both intersected with and was distinct from the global circulation of fiction in the nineteenth century. \'85 I show that Tillotson\'92s was only one entity among many operating in Australia, that it became systematically involved with colonial newspapers a decade earlier, and by a different motivation, than has been argued, and that the involvement of colonial newspapers in publishing local writing, and in sourcing and distributing fiction, continued despite the presence of multiple international companies in the market.\
Turning to provincial newspapers, I demonstrate that fiction reprinting, as well as publishing, was more common in that context than in the metropolitan one. \'85 While past histories of Australian publishing are primarily book-based, this investigation shows that a local newspaper syndication agency, Cameron, Laing, and Co., published the most Australian fiction for the nineteenth century and probably well into the twentieth. It also reveals that provincial syndicates provided more fiction to the colonies than any of the book publishers, local or global, or the metropolitan newspapers that have been the focus of previous literary and book histories.\'94 (11)\cf3 \
\
\'93Nineteenth-century newspapers were part of a strong culture of reprinting content, including fiction.1 Reflecting this culture, 50 percent of the extended fiction titles in the curated dataset appear more than once.\'94 (123)\
\
\'93Until recently, researchers have relied on manually searching analog collections and, accordingly, on relatively small and selective samples: the fiction published in particular, typically major metropolitan, periodicals; by specific, predominantly canonical, authors; or as recorded in surviving records of syndication agencies.\'94 (123)\
\
\'93Existing studies of colonial fiction reprinting stress the market dominance of the first and most famous British syndication agency, Tillotson\'92s Page 124 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 Fiction Bureau, and the associated ascendancy of British over local fiction. I demonstrate that Tillotson\'92s was only one participant among many and offer a new account of the nature, timing, and effects of its colonial operations. Previously, Tillotson\'92s has been associated only with major city periodicals. To the contrary, the company primarily engaged with second-tier metropolitan and provincial newspapers and did so earlier, and more systematically, than has been recognized. \'94 (123-4)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 She has 
\i very
\i0  specific, and 
\i very
\i0  local, arguments about reprinting that she cares about. How can I do this for the 1790s?\

\b0 \'93For the provincial press, my analysis reveals an entirely new set of activities and actors.\'94 (124)\
\
\'93\'85most fiction reprinting in provincial newspapers involved an extensive, active, and hitherto essentially unrecognized array of syndication agencies operating within and beyond the colonies. This new account of fiction reprinting and syndication in nineteenth-century Australian newspapers reveals a much more complex, varied, and populated range of processes and structures\'97local and global\'97than has been appreciated. It also 
\b \cb4 highlights the extent to which past studies have approached the larger, previously largely intractable, newspaper archive through the lens of smaller, more tractable archives
\b0 \'97of particular newspapers, authors, and syndication agencies\'97
\b and how this strategy has shaped and distorted understandings of colonial literary culture and its connection to the international fiction market.
\b0  Of course, such partiality is not the exclusive province of analog resources and methods; 
\b as the first half of this book emphasized, digital resources and methods institute their own partial view
\b0 .\'94 (124)\
\cb1 \
\'93
\b As mass-digitized collections become core disciplinary infrastructure for literary history, network analysis is increasingly used to explore the extensive datasets derived from them
\b0  in order to investigate historical connections in literary culture.\'94 (Bode 125)\
\'93The reason for the method\'92s popularity is clear: its depiction of edges (relationships) between nodes (entities) 
\b resonates with a system-based understanding of print and literary culture
\b0 , common in book history and periodical studies and foregrounded by data-rich literary history. Applied to the extensive datasets harvested from mass-digitized collections, the attractive visualizations enabled by programs such as Gephi
\b  appear to bring connections and configurations within such systems literally into view
\b0 \'94 (125)\
\'93However, at least as it is currently employed in data-rich literary history\'97and arguably, inevitably for research based on mass-digitized collections\'97
\b network analysis inhibits effective engagement with historical evidence
\b0 . In particular, a focus on visualization i
\b mpedes scholars\'92 understanding of the evidence
\b0  available to construct and interpret network models and creates perhaps insurmountable 
\b barriers to recognizing and accommodating the evidence that is absent
\b0 .\'94 (125)\
\'93With the exception of geospatial formats, 
\b network analysis arranges nodes entirely according to the proprieties of the available dataset
\b0 . In a force-directed graph, for instance, algorithms position nodes based on the number of edges they share with others and their strength. As a result,
\b  adding new data
\b0 \'97an inescapable prospect in a field where only a very small proportion of the documentary record is digitized\'97
\b will always, and often radically, change the respective positions and strengths of all nodes and edges depicted
\b0 .\'94 (126)\
\'93For projects based on mining mass-digitized collections, 
\b the considerable gaps in what is available to be modeled mean that network visualizations invariably present fictitious systems
\b0 : arrangements that are a function of what has been digitized as much as, if not vastly more so than, how a literary system actually cohered and operated.\'94 (126)\
\
\'93Although mass digitization is understood in terms of evidentiary excess, it concurrently creates a profound evidentiary imbalance for data-rich literary history, between extensive (though incomplete) information on the contents of books and periodicals and very limited availability of the documents needed to understand the actors and institutions responsible for creating and distributing those contents.\'94 (126)\
\
\'93Humanities researchers increasingly recognize data as artifacts rather than facts (Gitelman) and algorithms as arguments that should not be black-boxed (Pasquale).7 But presenting network models as visual images\'97without publishing the data underpinning and produced by them\'97precludes assessment of these underlying procedures and their effects.\'94 (127)\
\
\'93in her work on nineteenth-century genre formation, DeWitt avoids mistaking for historical phenomena the patterns arising from data mining by reading each of the \'93thousands\'94 of articles resulting from searching six databases for seven theological titles (163). 
\b Although returning her to the challenge of evidentiary excess that network analysis is intended to overcome
\b0 , this approach means all 355 articles in her model meet her definition of genre formation: the claim by a reviewer of likeness between two or more titles.\'94 (128)\
\
\'93
\b Statistical approaches offer an alternative to representational forms of network analysis, one capable of identifying and accommodating incompleteness in the data available to be modeled and interpreted
\b0 . The measures I am referring to are not those built into programs such as Gephi: for instance, graph density, modularity, or weighted degree. These characterize the effects of network modeling on the available dataset; they do not accommodate gaps in evidence. Scientific and social scientific applications of network analysis employ alternative statistical approaches to this end. 
\b Measures of probability
\b0 , for instance, assess the likelihood that stated characteristics of a modeled network would remain true if all data were available, while
\b  \'93forest\'94 networks8
\b0  address questions of causality when underlying relationships are unknown but from a finite set. \'85 \'93
\b Such approaches recognize that questions relating to system structures and their dynamics are exceptionally sensitive to data completeness
\b0 . Even with a representative dataset,
\b  for the results of network modeling to serve as a justifiable foundation for argument, the likelihood that they are the products of data availability or of random chance needs to be established and shown to be low
\b0 .\'94\
(8\'93This method constructs millions of networks, containing all possible combinations of causes, to explore and contrast the range of possible dynamics.\'94)\
\'93But even if literary historians developed the literacies needed to conduct and interpret such measures\'97and narrowed the form of questions asked of network models accordingly (to consider, for instance, the structural effects of interrupting certain relationships rather than how a system works)\'97
\b I do not think network analysis, alone, would support an adequate encounter with historical evidence. The probability measures needed to model systems based on highly incomplete datasets are at odds with the centrality of documentary evidence to historical argument.
\b0 \'94 (130)\
\
\'93 I treated the connections and patterns proposed by network analysis Page 131 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 as potential indicators of reprinting practices, not evidence of them or their meaning.\
To construct my arguments, I approached these results with questions that scholars have long asked in literary history and based my answers on forms of evidence the field has traditionally relied upon.\'94 (131-2)\
\'93The resulting perspective on fiction reprinting in nineteenth-century Australian newspapers, and as those newspapers connected to global systems, is significantly extended by mass digitization and by the exploratory capacities of network analysis. But it is not based exclusively on the contents of a mass-digitized collection and the alignments suggested by a digital method for analyzing them, nor is it a comprehensive view. Rather than delineating a historical literary system, my analysis constructs a narrative out of multiple pieces of evidence, providing important insights but also acknowledging multiple dead ends: places where gaps in the evidence relating to the fiction published and/or to the documents needed to interpret those events limit what I can know.\'94 (132)\
\
She makes a lot of claims about what her charts \'93show\'94 but they continue to be very clumsy/ugly bar charts that try to do a bit too much at once and often don\'92t feel like they show what she says nearly as strongly as she says it. (c 140)}