{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red0\green0\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;
\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93However, the path to digitization was not ideal: these documents were imaged in the late 1970s, transformed into microfilm during the 1980s, and the microfilms digitized in the 1990s. Because of the state of reproductive technologies during the late 20th century, as well as the circuitous path to digitization (through microfilm), the image quality is very poor and bitonal, with no greyscale / images available. Furthermore, the original documents themselves, printed with premodern technologies, pose problems even for human readers of their pages, but much more so for optical character recognition (OCR) engines. For example, printed characters were not perfectly situated on a baseline, blackletter fonts were used, ink bled through the paper, and the typeface was broken and overworn.\'94 (Christy et al. 1-2)\
Reference \'93deep fried memes\'94 \'97 xkcd comic: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://xkcd.com/1683/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://xkcd.com/1683/}}\cf3 \
\
The punchline of this comic strip is a classic \'93form vs content\'94 joke: the literal words relay a techno-optimism that is undercut by the visual decay of the image itself, which is meant to remind the comic\'92s audience of current state of older comics or memes that circulate on the internet. The first two panels are merely low-resolution, reflecting purely technological trends of digital data loss. Even without data loss, an old image is likely to look damaged in a modern context, as standards for \'93high resolution\'94 have climbed with every year; at one time, it was pointless to save any digital image at higher resolution than 72dpi, since 72dpi was the maximum a screen could display. Today, Apple\'92s Retina displays commonly show 227dpi, and mobile phones go up to 500dpi. A perfectly unaltered 72dpi image from twenty years ago can easily look blurry and out of place on a modern website. As another way that the ordinary passage of time degrades digital images: although it is possible for bits to be copied exactly (as the comic\'92s main character says), in reality most image files are compressed, uncompressed, and recompressed as they are shared between computers, especially if they are uploaded to and downloaded from websites which want to minimize their hosting costs. It would be almost impossible for time and technology to continue changing, developing new standards and formats, without older images becoming degraded through multiple conversions \'97 and therefore suffering in comparison to newer images.\
The second two panels of the comic, however, draw attention to distinctly social human processes which often accelerate the decay of digital images. In the third panel, the stick figures have slightly shrunk, and beneath them we can see some icons of a computer menu. Implied in this panel is the idea that we are no longer looking at a copy of the image file itself, but a screenshot someone has taken of the image open on their computer. The final panel adds another layer of screenshotting through the mobile phone menu at the top, and two different watermarks implying that the image has been reposted at several image-sharing websites. \cf3 \cb4 The relevant lesson here is: [???]\cf3 \cb1 \
The inevitability of digital decay has been acknowledged in informal cultural circles online, such as this website, and the wider phenomenon of \'93deep fried memes,\'94 which present images (conventionally, established meme formats for other memes) with hyperbolic distortions. Pixellation, colour shifts, and layers of emoji (which, like the watermarks in the last panel of the 
\i \cf3 xkcd
\i0 \cf3  comic, imply human intervention and not just technological deterioration) all contribute to a visual effect that makes the images \'93look like they've been compressed, re-uploaded, and compressed again,\'94 implying an often incongruous long history for the content of the\cf5  \cf3 image, and creating an overall effect of being \'93comically over-processed\'94 (Matsakis).}