{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93This greatly expanded record of nineteenth-century Australian newspaper fiction was created as a basis for what I call data-rich literary history, and what many scholars, especially in the United States, refer to in the terminology of the field\'92s most prominent practitioner, Franco Moretti, as \'93distant reading.\'944 
\b \cf2 This approach to literary history applies computational methods of analysis to large bibliographical 
\b0 \cf2 Page 3 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u8594 
\f0\b  and/or textual datasets\'97derived increasingly though not exclusively from mass-digitized collections\'97to explore how literary works existed, interrelated, and generated meaning in the past. 
\b0 \cf2 By investigating the cultural and material contexts in which literature was produced, circulated, and read, data-rich literary history seeks to challenge and move beyond the literary canons that organize perceptions of past literature in the present. This, then, was my intention: to move from question, to opportunity, to answers and, in so doing, to advance a noncanonical, data-rich, and transnational history of the literary, publishing, and reading cultures of nineteenth-century Australia. But working with Trove interrupted that neat sequence. Instead of simply answering questions, that engagement produced its own, pressing questions about the nature and implications of literary history conducted with mass-digitized collections and the literary data derived from them.\'94 (2-3)\
\
\'93I came to realize that
\b \cf2  this supposedly precritical activity formed an extended historical argument in and of itself
\b0 \cf2 , in the context of a specific mass-digitized collection.\'94 (3)\
\
\'93And while current discussion of mass-digitization foregrounds the scale of such collections and the extensiveness of the digital access they provide, I became increasingly conscious of the gaps in Trove: and this is a mass-digitized collection that is among the largest, and most complete, in the world. When I looked to other data-rich literary history projects to see how they were meeting this challenge I found that the complex relationships between documentary record, digitization, data curation, and historical analysis were not fully articulated.\'94 (3)\
\
\'93The result of the questions and opportunities that led me to this project\'97and of the questions they, in turn, generated\'97is
\b \cf2  a book in two parts
\b0 \cf2 . T
\b \cf2 he first explores limitations in existing approaches to data-rich literary history
\b0 \cf2  and offers an alternative in the form of a new scholarly object of analysis. My central contention in this first part is that, whateverPage 4 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 \cf2  computational methods allow us to do with ever-growing collections of literary data, the results cannot advance knowledge if the literary data analyzed do not effectively represent the historical context we seek to understand.
\b \cf2  I draw on the theoretical and practical foundations of textual scholarship to constitute what I call a scholarly edition of a literary system
\b0 \cf2 : that is, a model of literary works that were published, circulated, and read\'97and thereby accrued meaning\'97in a specific historical context, constructed with reference to the history of transmission by which documentary evidence of those works is constituted.\'94 (3-4)\
\'93The second part of A World of Fiction demonstrates how analysis of a scholarly edition of a literary system can revolutionize knowledge of literary history as well as the frameworks and concepts through which we perceive past literature in the present. While the \'93transnational turn\'94 in Australian literary studies has represented nineteenth-century Australian readers as oriented almost entirely toward British fiction, I offer a more complex picture: one where this orientation exists, but where colonial authors, publishers, and readers also forged a distinctive Australian literary culture. In the process, I describe an entirely new organization for and structures within literary culture in the colonies and demonstrate the capacity of data-rich literary history to advance understanding of major concepts and phenomena in the broader discipline, ranging from literary anonymity and pseudonymity to reception, fiction reprinting and syndication, and the nature of literary traditions.\'94 (4)\
\
\'93
\b \cf2 For this book I did not simply theorize a scholarly edition; I built one.
\b0 \cf2  Its curated dataset is a subset of the 16,500 titles I discovered in the nineteenth-century Australian newspapers digitized by Trove.\'94(7)\
\
\'93 
\b \cf2 I chose to focus on nineteenth-century extended fiction
\b0 \cf2 \'97to subject those titles to extensive historical and bibliographical research and representation\'97
\b \cf2 because
\b0 \cf2 Page 8 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 \cf2  
\b \cf2 those works constitute a literary system in the form of production and reception they imply
\b0 \cf2 . While stories completed in a single newspaper issue suggest incidental publishing and reading\'97with such content often selected simply to fill column inches and likely read in a casual manner\'97extended fiction required deliberate sourcing and publishing by editors and implies more intensive or committed engagement from readers.\'94(7-8)\
\
\'93As well as a basis for the arguments presented in A World of Fiction, this scholarly edition of a literary system is, fundamentally, for others to use. It makes the outcomes of a rigorous engagement with a mass-digitized collection available for the benefit of all literary historians, whether they are computationally inclined or not. Accordingly, while the argument it embodies about the existence of, and the interrelationships between, literary works in the past is an outcome of analysis, it is also a basis for future exploration. As I elaborate with examples in the conclusion, like a scholarly edition of a literary work, a scholarly edition of a literary system is designed to enable and advance\'97rather than to decide or conclude\'97investigation.\'94 (8) <\'97 connection to Open Access research: the datasets are themselves published in multiple accessible, transformable forms\
\
\'93In using this scholarly edition to investigate extended fiction in nineteenth-century Australian newspapers, each of the three chapters in the book\'92s second part adapts and applies a core digital humanities method: bibliometrics in chapter 4, network analysis in chapter 5, and topic modeling in chapter 6. Each chapter begins with a critical analysisPage 9 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 \cf2  of the respective method: 
\b \cf2 although it is a premise of the book that data-rich literary history should not focus on the methods of analysis used to the detriment of the object analyzed
\b0 \cf2 , in a field that attempts to understand literature and culture by applying techniques devised for other purposes
\b \cf2  a critical approach to methodology is essential
\b0 \cf2 .\'94 (8-9)\
\
\'93In presenting the results of this analysis, these three chapters intervene in a prominent critical trajectory in literary studies, for Australia and internationally: the so-called transnational turn. As has been the case for many national literary fields, in recent decades Australian literary scholars have recognized that Australian literary history is not coterminous with the history of literature by Australians.\'94 (9)\
\'93In investigating the main form of local publishing and source of fiction in nineteenth-century Australia\'97newspapersPage 10 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 \cf2 \'97this book explores the profound importance of British fiction to literary production and reception in the colonies. But it denies that the relationship to British culture was one of subservience and imitation. To the contrary, I demonstrate at scale what emerging analyses of individual works and reading practices increasingly recognize: how literary forms and practices were translated and transformed by their colonial enactment.10 More contentiously, I emphasize the distinctiveness of literary culture in the colonies, including in the forms of writing and authorship that readers valued, in how fiction was sourced, and in the themes explored in Australian stories.\'94 (9-10)\
\
\'93A World of Fiction works across, while contributing to, two fields\'97digital humanities and literary history\'97that are in many ways closely integrated, while in others, still academic worlds apart. It may well be that scholars who primarily align themselves with digital humanities will gravitate to the discussion of digital knowledge infrastructure, digitization, data, remediation, and modeling in part 1 and to the critiques of digital methods that begin the other chapters. Alternatively, literary, book, and media historians might find more of specific interest in part Page 13 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u8594 
\f0 \cf2 2\'92s exploration of literary production and reception and of the transnational circulation of nineteenth-century fiction in periodical form.\
While such variation in the interests of readers is perhaps inevitable, 
\b \cf2 the two parts of this book fundamentally require and inform each other.
\b0 \cf2  Although it is often understood as such, literary history is not solely an analytical and critical enterprise; it has always been bound up in\'97enabled and produced by\'97the knowledge infrastructure that it creates and employs. Equally, although digital humanities is frequently presented as a methodological and infrastructural endeavor, it is just as much a historical and analytical one. The approaches and infrastructure developed and employed in that field have histories, just as the conceptual entities examined\'97including literary data and computational models\'97are critical and interpretive constructs. Confronting the challenges and possibilities that new digital technologies and resources bring to literary history and to the humanities broadly requires a mutually informative relationship of traditional and digital scholarship. Only such a relationship can enable the emergence and consolidation of the new forms of evidence, analysis, and argumentation required by the contemporary conditions of cultural research.\'94 (12-13)}