{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \cf2 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Agorni, Mirella. 
\f1 \cf2 Translating Italy for the Eighteenth Century: Women, Translation and Travel Writing 1739-1797
\f0 \cf2 . Northampton: St. Jerome Publishing, 2002. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
292 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'97\'97\'97. \'93Women Manipulating Translation: The Case of Elizabeth Carter.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 The Knowledges of the Translator: From Literary Interpretation to Machine Classification
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Malcolm Coulthard and Patricia Anne Odber de Baubeta, 135-43. Queenston: Edwin Mellen Press, 1996. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Anderson, William S. \'93Ironic Preambles and Satiric Self-Definition in Horace "Satire" 2.1.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Pacific Coast Philology 
\f0 \cf2 19.1 (1984): 36\'9642. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Aubrey, James R. \'93Timon\'92s Villa: Pope\'92s Composite Picture.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Studies in Philology 
\f0 \cf2 80.3 (1983), 325-48. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Backscheider, Paula 
\f1 \cf2 Eighteenth-Century Women Poets and Their Poetry: Inventing Agency, Inventing Genre
\f0 \cf2 . Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2005. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	7.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'97\'97\'97. Introduction to 
\f1 \cf2 Selected Fiction and Drama of Eliza Haywood
\f0 \cf2 , by Eliza Haywood, i- xliv. New York: Oxford University Press, 1999. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	8.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'97\'97\'97. \'93The Shadow of an Author: Eliza Haywood.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Eighteenth-Century Fiction 
\f0 \cf2 11.1 (1998): 79-102. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	9.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Baines, Paul. 
\f1 \cf2 The Complete Critical Guide to Alexander Pope
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Routledge, 2000. Baird, John. \'93Boswell Exploded and the Secret History of the Publication of Johnson\'92s 
\f1 \cf2 London 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	10.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Finally Revealed.\'94 Paper presented at CSECS Secrets and Surveillance, Kingston, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	11.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ontario, October 2016.\uc0\u8232 Ballaster, Ros. \'93Preparatives to Love: Seduction as Fiction in the Works of Eliza Haywood.\'94 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	12.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Living by the Pen: Early British Women Writers
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Dale Spender, 52-64. New 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	13.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
York: Teachers College Press, 1992.\uc0\u8232 Bigold, Melanie. 
\f1 \cf2 Women of Letters, Manuscript Circulation, and Print Afterlives in the 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	14.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Eighteenth Century
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2013.\uc0\u8232 Blouch, Christine. Introduction to 
\f1 \cf2 The History of Miss Betsy Thoughtless
\f0 \cf2 , by Eliza Haywood. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	15.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ontario: Broadview Press, 1998.\uc0\u8232 Brack, Jr., O. M. and Chilton, Leslie A. Introduction to 
\f1 \cf2 The Adventures of Gil Blas of Santillane
\f0 \cf2 , 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	16.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
by Tobias Smollett, xvii-xxix. Athens: University of Georgia Press, 2011.\uc0\u8232 Brack, Jr., O M. \'93Samuel Johnson and the Translations of Jean Pierre de Crousaz\'92 \'91Examen and 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	17.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Commentaire.\'92\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Studies in Bibliography 
\f0 \cf2 48 (1995):60-84.\uc0\u8232 Ballaster, Ros. 
\f1 \cf2 Seductive Forms: Women\'92s Amatory Fiction from 1684 to 1740
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	18.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Clarendon Press, 1992. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	19.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
293 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	20.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bassnett, Susan and Trivedi, Harish. Introduction to 
\f1 \cf2 Post-Colonial Translation: Theory and Practice
\f0 \cf2 , 1-18. New York: Routledge, 1999. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	21.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bate, Walter Jackson. 
\f1 \cf2 The Burden of the Past and the English Poet
\f0 \cf2 . London: Chatto & Windus, 1971. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	22.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Behlman, Lee. \'93The Victorian Marcus Aurelius: Mill, Arnold, and the Appeal of the Quasi- Christian.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Journal of Victorian Culture 
\f0 \cf2 16.1 (2011): 1-24. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	23.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bell, Duncan. \'93From Ancient to Modern in Victorian Imperial Thought.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The Historical Journal 
\f0 \cf2 49.3 (2006): 735-759. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	24.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Berman, Antoine. 
\f1 \cf2 The Experience of the Foreign: Culture and Translation in Romantic Germany
\f0 \cf2 . Translated by S. Heyvaert. Albany: SUNY Press, 1992. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	25.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Blanchard, Alastair J. and Sowerby, Tracey A. \'93Thomas Wilson\'92s Demosthenes and the Politics of Tudor Translation.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 International Journal of the Classical Tradition 
\f0 \cf2 12.1 (2005): 46- 80. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	26.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bloom, Harold. 
\f1 \cf2 The Anatomy of Influence: Literature as a Way of Life
\f0 \cf2 . New Haven: Yale University Press, 2011. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	27.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bonnell, Thomas. 
\f1 \cf2 The Most Disreputable Trade: Publishing the Classics of English Poetry 1765- 1810
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2008. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	28.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Borges, Jorge Luis. \'93Pierre Menard, Autor del Quijote.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Ficciones 
\f0 \cf2 (1997): 41-55.\uc0\u8232 Bottkol, J. \'93Dryden\'92s Latin Scholarship.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Modern Philology 
\f0 \cf2 40 (1943): 241-254.\uc0\u8232 Braden, Gordon, Ellis, Roger, France, Peter, Haynes, Kenneth, Hopkins, David and Gillespie, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	29.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Stuart, eds. 
\f1 \cf2 The Oxford History of Literary Translation in English
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	30.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
University Press, 2005-11.\uc0\u8232 Brant, Clare. 
\f1 \cf2 Eighteenth-Century Letters and British Culture
\f0 \cf2 . Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	31.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2006.\uc0\u8232 Brewer, John. 
\f1 \cf2 The Pleasures of the Imagination: English Culture in the Eighteenth Century
\f0 \cf2 . New 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	32.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
York: Routledge, 2013.\uc0\u8232 Brooks, Harold F. \'93The \'91Imitation\'92 in English Poetry, Especially in Formal Satire, before the Age 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	33.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of Pope.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The Review of English Studies 
\f0 \cf2 25.48 (1949): 124-140.\uc0\u8232 Brower, Reuben. 
\f1 \cf2 Pope: The Poetry of Allusion
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Oxford University Press, 1959. Brown, Hilary. \'93The Reception of the Bluestockings by Eighteenth-Century German Women 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	34.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Writers.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Women in German Yearbook 
\f0 \cf2 18 (2002): 111-32. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	35.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
294 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	36.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Brown, Laura. 
\f1 \cf2 Alexander Pope
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Terry Eagleton. Hoboken: Wiley-Blackwell, 1985. Brown, Phillip. \'93M. G. Lewis and the Violence of Translation: A Study of Ideological 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	37.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Transformation in the Translation Process.\'94 MA diss., University of Hull, 2004.\uc0\u8232 Budd, Adam. \'93\'91Merit in distress\'92: The Troubled Success of Mary Barber.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The Review of English 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	38.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Studies 
\f0 \cf2 53.210 (2002): 204-27.\uc0\u8232 Case, Arthur E. \'93Pope, Addison, and the \'91Atticus\'92 Lines.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Modern Philology 
\f0 \cf2 33.2 (1935-36): 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	39.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
187-93.\uc0\u8232 Child, Elizabeth. \'93Elizabeth Montagu, Bluestocking Businesswoman.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Huntington Library 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	40.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Quarterly 
\f0 \cf2 65.1 (2002): 153-173.\uc0\u8232 Clark, Anna. 
\f1 \cf2 Women\'92s Silence, Men\'92s Violence: Sexual Assault in England 1770-1845
\f0 \cf2 . London: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	41.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Pandora Press, 1987.\uc0\u8232 Codr, Dwight Douglass. \'93A Store Yet Untouched: Speculative Ideologies in Eighteenth-Century 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	42.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
English Literature.\'94 PhD diss., Cornell University, 2005.\uc0\u8232 Cohen, Margaret and Dever, Carolyn eds., 
\f1 \cf2 The Literary Channel: The Inter-National Invention of 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	43.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
the Novel
\f0 \cf2 . Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2002.\uc0\u8232 Cohen, Mich\'e8le. \'93\'91A Little Learning\'92? The Curriculum and the Construction of Gender 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	44.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Difference in the Long Eighteenth Century.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Journal for Eighteenth-Century Studies 
\f0 \cf2 29.3 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	45.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(2006): 321-335.\uc0\u8232 Coldiron, A. E. 
\f1 \cf2 English Printing, Verse Translation, and the Battle of the Sexes, 1476-1557
\f0 \cf2 . 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	46.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Aldershot: Ashgate Press, 2009.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 Printers without Borders: Translation and Textuality in the Renaissance
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	47.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cambridge University Press, 2015.\uc0\u8232 Connell, R. W. 
\f1 \cf2 Masculinities
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Polity, 1995.\uc0\u8232 Cook, Robert. \'93On Translating Sagas.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Gripla 
\f0 \cf2 13 (2002): 107-45.\uc0\u8232 Cowley, Abraham. 
\f1 \cf2 Abraham Cowley: Poetry & Prose
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by L. C. Martin. Oxford: Oxford 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	48.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
University Press, 1949.\uc0\u8232 Craft-Fairchild, Catherine. 
\f1 \cf2 Masquerade and Gender Disguise and Female Identity in Eighteenth- 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	49.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Century Fictions by Women
\f0 \cf2 . University Park: Penn State University Press, 1993. Craig, Hardin. \'93Dryden\'92s Lucian.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Modern Philology 
\f0 \cf2 16.2 (1921): 141-163.\uc0\u8232 Crisafulli, Edoardo. 
\f1 \cf2 The Vision of Dante: Cary\'92s Translation of The Divine Comedy
\f0 \cf2 . Leicester: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	50.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Troubadour Publishing, 2003. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	51.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
295 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	52.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Damrosch, Jr, Leopold. 
\f1 \cf2 The Imaginative World of Alexander Pope
\f0 \cf2 . Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1987. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	53.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Darnton, Robert. 
\f1 \cf2 The Literary Underground of the Old Regime
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1982. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	54.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Davis, Paul. \'93Dryden and the Invention of Augustan Culture.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 The Cambridge Companion to Dryden
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Steven Zwicker, 75-91. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2004. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	55.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 Translation and the Poet\'92s Life: The Ethics of Translating in English Culture, 1646- 1726
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Oxford University Press, 2008. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	56.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Day, Robert. 
\f1 \cf2 Told in Letters: Epistolary Fiction Before Richardson
\f0 \cf2 . Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 1966. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	57.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Daybell, James. 
\f1 \cf2 Women Letter-Writers in Tudor England
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2006. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	58.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Deazley, Ronan. 
\f1 \cf2 On the Origin of the Right to Copy: Charting the Movement of Copyright Law in Eighteenth Century Britain (1695-1775)
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Hart Publishing, 2004. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	59.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 Rethinking Copyright: History, Theory, Language
\f0 \cf2 . Northampton: Edward Elgar, 2006. Deutsch, Helen. 
\f1 \cf2 Resemblance & Disgrace: Alexander Pope and the Deformation of Culture
\f0 \cf2 . 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	60.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1996.\uc0\u8232 Dorr, Priscilla. \'93Elizabeth Carter (1717-1806) UK.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Tulsa Studies in Women\'92s Literature 
\f0 \cf2 5.1 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	61.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(1986): 138-40.\uc0\u8232 Draper, John. \'93The Theory of Translation in the Eighteenth Century.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Neophilologus 
\f0 \cf2 6.1 (1921): 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	62.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
241-254.\uc0\u8232 Eisenstein, Elizabeth L. 
\f1 \cf2 Grub Street Abroad: Aspects of the French Cosmopolitan Press from the 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	63.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Age of Louis XIV to the French Revolution
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1992. Eliot, Simon. \'93Very Necessary but Not Quite Sufficient: A Personal View of Quantitative 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	64.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Analysis in Book History.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Book History 
\f0 \cf2 5 (2002): 283\'9693.\uc0\u8232 Ellis, Roger. \'93The Juvenile Translations of Elizabeth Tudor.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Translation and Literature 
\f0 \cf2 18 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	65.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(2009): 157-180.\uc0\u8232 Erskine-Hill, Howard. 
\f1 \cf2 The Augustan Idea in English Literature
\f0 \cf2 . London: Hodder Arnold, 1983. \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 Pope: Horatian Satires and Epistles
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1974.\uc0\u8232 Fairer, David. 
\f1 \cf2 English Poetry of the Eighteenth Century, 1700-1789
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Routledge, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	66.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2014. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	67.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
296 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	68.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Fern\'e1ndez, Jos\'e9 Mar\'eda P\'e9rez and Wilson-Lee, Edward, eds. 
\f1 \cf2 Translation and the Book Trade in Early Modern Europe
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2014. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	69.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Fleming, Catherine. \'93Improvised Patronage: Jacob Tonson and Dryden\'92s Linguistic Project.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Lumen 
\f0 \cf2 36 (2017): 95-111. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	70.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Fletcher, Anthony. 
\f1 \cf2 Gender, Sex, and Subordination in England 1500-1800
\f0 \cf2 . New Haven: Yale University Press, 1995. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	71.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Foxon, David and McLaverty, James. 
\f1 \cf2 Pope and the Early Eighteenth-Century Book Trade
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1991. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	72.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
France, Peter. \'93Introduction: Poetry, Culture, and Translation,\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Translation and Literature 
\f0 \cf2 6 (1997): 4-7. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	73.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
France, Peter, ed. 
\f1 \cf2 The Oxford Guide to Literature in English Translation
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2000. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	74.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Freeman, Lisa. \'93\'91A Dialogue\'92: Elizabeth Carter\'92s Passion for the Female Mind.\'94 in 
\f1 \cf2 Women\'92s Poetry in the Enlightenment: The Making of a Canon. 1730-1820
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Isobel Armstrong and Virginia Blain, 50-64. New York, St. Martin\'92s Press, 1999. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	75.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Freudenburg, Kirk. \'93Horace\'92s Satiric Program and the Language of Contemporary Theory in Satires 2.1.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The American Journal of Philology 
\f0 \cf2 111.2 (1990): 187-203. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	76.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Frost, William. 
\f1 \cf2 Dryden and the Art of Translation
\f0 \cf2 . New Haven: Yale University Press, 1955. Faull, Katherine. Introduction to 
\f1 \cf2 Translation and Culture
\f0 \cf2 , 13-24
\f1 \cf2 . 
\f0 \cf2 Lewisburg: Bucknell 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	77.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
University Press, 2004.\uc0\u8232 Gerrard, Christine. 
\f1 \cf2 Aaron Hill: The Muses\'92 Projector, 1685-1750
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	78.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Press, 2003.\uc0\u8232 Gillespie, Stuart. 
\f1 \cf2 English Translation and Classical Reception
\f0 \cf2 . Hoboken: Wiley-Blackwell, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	79.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2011.\uc0\u8232 Gillian E. Dow, ed. 
\f1 \cf2 Translators, Interpreters, Mediators: Women Writers 1700-1900
\f0 \cf2 . Bern: Peter 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	80.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Lang, 2007.\uc0\u8232 Girardot, Norman J. 
\f1 \cf2 The Victorian Translation of China: James Legge\'92s Oriental Pilgrimage
\f0 \cf2 . 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	81.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 2002.\uc0\u8232 Goldsmith, Netta Murray. 
\f1 \cf2 Alexander Pope: The Evolution of a Poet
\f0 \cf2 . Burlington: Ashgate, 2002. Gowan, Emily. \'93Fragments of Autobiography in Horace 
\f1 \cf2 Satires I
\f0 \cf2 .\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Classical Antiquity 
\f0 \cf2 22.1 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	82.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(2003): 55-91. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	83.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
297 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	84.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Gregg, Stephen. 
\f1 \cf2 Defoe\'92s Writings and Manliness
\f0 \cf2 . Burlington: Ashgate, 2009.\uc0\u8232 Greene, Jody. 
\f1 \cf2 The Trouble with Ownership: Literary Property and Authorial Liability in 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	85.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
England, 1660-1730
\f0 \cf2 . Pennsylvania: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2005.\uc0\u8232 Griffin, Dustin H. 
\f1 \cf2 Alexander Pope: The Poet in Poems
\f0 \cf2 . Princeton: Princeton University Press, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	86.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1978.\uc0\u8232 Grossi, Marina. \'93La Retorica Della Passione.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Sheherazade in Inghilterra: Formule Narrative 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	87.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Nell\'92evoluzione del \'93Romance\'94Inglese
\f0 \cf2 . Milano: Instituo Editoriale Cisalpino, 1983. Grossman, Edith. 
\f1 \cf2 Why Translation Matters
\f0 \cf2 . New Haven: Yale University Press, 2010. Grundy, Isobel. \'93The Verse of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu: A Critical Edition.\'94 PhD diss., 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	88.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Oxford University, 1971.\uc0\u8232 Guest, Harriet. 
\f1 \cf2 Small Change: Women, Learning, Patriotism, 1750-1810
\f0 \cf2 . Chicago: University of 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	89.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Chicago Press, 2000.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. \'93Bluestocking Feminism.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Huntington Library Quarterly 
\f0 \cf2 65.1 (2002): 59-80. Guskin, Phyllis J., ed., 
\f1 \cf2 Clio: The Autobiography of Martha Fowke Sansom (1689-1736)
\f0 \cf2 . 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	90.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Newark: University of Delaware Press, 1997.\uc0\u8232 Hacket, Helen, ed. 
\f1 \cf2 Early Modern Exchanges: Dialogues Between Nations and Cultures, 1550- 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	91.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1800
\f0 \cf2 . Burlington: Ashgate, 2015.\uc0\u8232 Haggarty, Sarah. \'93\'91The Ceremonial of Letter for Letter\'92: William Cowper and the Tempo of 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	92.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Epistolary Exchange.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Eighteenth-Century Life 
\f0 \cf2 35 (2011): 149-67.\uc0\u8232 Hale, Terry. \'93French and German Gothic: The Beginnings.\'94 in 
\f1 \cf2 The Cambridge Companion to 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	93.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Gothic Fiction
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Jerrold E Hogle, 63-84. Cambridge: Cambridge University 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	94.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Press, 2002.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. \'93Translation, Adaptation, Appropriation: The Origins of the European Gothic Novel.\'94 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	95.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Angelistica 
\f0 \cf2 55 (2001): 145-71\uc0\u8232 Hale, Terry. \'93Translation in Distress: Cultural Misappropriation and the Construction of the 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	96.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Gothic.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 European Gothic: A Spirited Exchange, 1760-1960
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Avril Horder, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	97.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
18-21. Manchester: Manchester University Press, 2002.\uc0\u8232 Hall, J. R. \'93Anglo-Saxon Studies in the Nineteenth-Century: England, Denmark, America.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 A 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	98.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Companion to Anglo-Saxon Literature
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Phillip Pulsiano and Elaine Treharne, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	99.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
434-54. Oxford: Blackwell Publishing, 2001.\uc0\u8232 Hamilton, Donna, 
\f1 \cf2 Anthony Munday and the Catholics, 1560-1633
\f0 \cf2 . Aldershot: Ashgate, 2005. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	100.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
298 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	101.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hammond, Brean. Introduction to 
\f1 \cf2 Pope
\f0 \cf2 , 1-25. New York: Routledge, 2014.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 Pope Amongst the Satirists 1660-1750
\f0 \cf2 . Devon: Northcote House, 2004.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 Professional Imaginative Writing in England, 1670-1740: 'hackney for bread.' 
\f0 \cf2 Oxford: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	102.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Clarendon, 1997.\uc0\u8232 Hammond, Paul. 
\f1 \cf2 Dryden and the Traces of Classical Rome
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	103.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1999.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. \'93The Integrity of Dryden\'92s Lucretius.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The Modern Language Review 
\f0 \cf2 78.1 (1983): 1-23. \'97\'97\'97. \'93Is Dryden a Classic?\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 John Dryden: Tercentenary Essays
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Paul Hammond 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	104.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and David Hopkins, 1-14. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2000.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 The Making of Restoration Poetry
\f0 \cf2 . New York: D.S. Brewer, 2006.\uc0\u8232 Hardwick, Lorna. 
\f1 \cf2 Translating Words, Translating Cultures
\f0 \cf2 . London: Bristol Classical Press, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	105.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2000.\uc0\u8232 Harrison, G. \'93The Confessions of Lucilius (Horace Sat. 2.1.30-34). A Defense of 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	106.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Autobiographical Satire?\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Classical Antiquity 
\f0 \cf2 6.1 (1987), 36-52.\uc0\u8232 Hayes, Julie. 
\f1 \cf2 Translation, Subjectivity, and Culture in France and England, 1600-1800
\f0 \cf2 . Stanford: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	107.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Stanford University Press, 2008.\uc0\u8232 H\'e9bert, Lyse. 
\f1 \cf2 Beyond Mediation? Exploring Translation and Interpretation in the Current 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	108.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Globalized Landscape
\f0 \cf2 . Toronto: York University Press, 2014.\uc0\u8232 Heinemann, M. \'93Eliza Haywood\'92s Career in the Theatre.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Notes and Queries 
\f0 \cf2 20.1 (1973): 9-13. Heller, Deborah. \'93Bluestocking Salons and the Public Sphere.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Eighteenth-Century Life 
\f0 \cf2 22 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	109.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(1998): 59-82.\uc0\u8232 Hermans, Theo. \'93Metaphor and Imagery in the Renaissance Discourse on Translation.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 The 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	110.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Manipulation of Literature: Studies in Literary Translation
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Theo Hermans, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	111.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
103-35. London: Routledge, 2014.\uc0\u8232 Hill, Bridget. 
\f1 \cf2 Women Alone: Spinsters in England, 1660-1850
\f0 \cf2 . New Haven: Yale University 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	112.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Press, 2001.\uc0\u8232 Hollis, Karen. \'93Eliza Haywood and the Gender of Print.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The Eighteenth Century 
\f0 \cf2 38.1 (1997): 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	113.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
43\'9662.\uc0\u8232 Hopkins, David. \'93Dryden and the Tenth Satire of Juvenal.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Translation and Literature 
\f0 \cf2 4.1 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	114.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(1995): 31-60.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. \'93Translation, Metempsychosis, and the Flux of Nature: \'91Of the Pythagorean 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	115.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
299 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	116.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Philosophy.\'92\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Dryden and the World of Neoclassicism
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Wolfgang 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	117.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
G\'f6rstschacher and Holger Klein, 145-54. T\'fcbingen: Stauffenburg Verlag, 2001.\uc0\u8232 Hume, Robert D. 
\f1 \cf2 The Development of English Drama in the Late Seventeenth Century
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	118.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Clarendon Press, 1976.\uc0\u8232 Hutcheon, Linda. 
\f1 \cf2 A Theory of Adaptation
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Routledge, 2006.\uc0\u8232 Ingram, Martin. 
\f1 \cf2 Church Courts, Sex and Marriage in England, 15701-1640
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	119.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cambridge University Press, 1987.\uc0\u8232 Ingram, Robert G. 
\f1 \cf2 Religion, Reform and Modernity in the Eighteenth Century: Thomas Secker 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	120.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and the Church of England
\f0 \cf2 . Woodbridge: Boydell Publishing, 2007.\uc0\u8232 Ingrassia, Catherine. 
\f1 \cf2 Authorship, Commerce, and Gender in Early Eighteenth-Century England
\f0 \cf2 . 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	121.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1998.\uc0\u8232 Jerrold, Walter and Clare. 
\f1 \cf2 Five Queer Women
\f0 \cf2 . London: Brentano\'92s Ltd., 1929.\uc0\u8232 Jones, Richard J, 
\f1 \cf2 Tobias Smollett in the Enlightenment: Travels Through France, Italy, and 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	122.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Scotland
\f0 \cf2 . Lewisburg: Bucknell University Press, 2011.\uc0\u8232 Kelly, Gary. \'93Bluestocking Feminism.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Women, Writing, and the Public Sphere, 1700-1830
\f0 \cf2 . 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	123.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Edited by Elizabeth Eger, Charlotte Grant, Cliona Ogallchoir, and Penny Warburton, 163- 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	124.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
80. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2001.\uc0\u8232 Keymer, Thomas and Sabor, Peter. 
\f1 \cf2 \'91Pamela\'92 in the Marketplace: Literary Controversy and Print 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	125.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Culture in Eighteenth-Century Britain and Ireland
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Cambridge University 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	126.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Press, 2005.\uc0\u8232 King, Kathryn. \'93New Contexts for Early Novels by Women: The Case of Eliza Haywood, Aaron 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	127.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hill, and the Hillarians, 1719\'961725.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 A Companion to the Eighteenth-Century English Novel and Culture
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Paula R. Backscheider and Catherine Ingrassia, 261-75. Oxford: Blackwell Publishing Ltd, 2005. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	128.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'97\'97\'97. \'93Of Grub Street and Grudges: Haywood\'92s 
\f1 \cf2 Court of Caramania 
\f0 \cf2 and Pope\'92s Ire.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Review of English Studies 
\f0 \cf2 67.281 (2016): 713-31. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	129.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 A Political Biography of Eliza Haywood
\f0 \cf2 . London, Pickering & Chatto, 2012.\uc0\u8232 King, Thomas A. 
\f1 \cf2 The Gendering of Men, 1600-1750
\f0 \cf2 . Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	130.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2004.\uc0\u8232 Kinservik, Matthew J. 
\f1 \cf2 Sex, Scandal, and Celebrity in Late Eighteenth-Century England
\f0 \cf2 . New 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	131.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2007. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	132.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
300 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	133.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Kinsley, James and Helen, eds. 
\f1 \cf2 John Dryden: The Critical Heritage
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Routledge, 1971. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	134.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Knellwolf, Christa. 
\f1 \cf2 A Contradiction Still: Representations of Women in the Poetry of Alexander Pope
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Manchester University Press, 1999. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	135.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'97\'97\'97. \'93Women Translators, Gender and the Cultural Context of the Scientific Revolution.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Translation and Nation: Towards a Cultural Politics of Englishness
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Roger Ellis and Liz Oakley-Brown, 85-119. North York, Multilingual Matters Ltd., 2001. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	136.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Kraft, Elizabeth 
\f1 \cf2 Women Novelists and the Ethics of Desire, 1684-1814: In the Voice of Our Biblical Mothers
\f0 \cf2 . Burlington: Ashgate, 2008. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	137.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Kuizenga, Donna. \'93Writing in Drag: Strategic Rewriting in the Early Epistolary Novel.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Studies in Early Modern France Volume 8: Strategic Rewriting
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by David Lee Rubin, 149-172. Charlottesville: Rookwood Press, 2002. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	138.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Laker, John. 
\f1 \cf2 History of Deal
\f0 \cf2 . Deal: Dain & Sons, l921.\uc0\u8232 Lanser, Susan S. \'93Befriending the Body: Female Intimacies as Class Acts,\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Eighteenth-Century 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	139.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Studies 
\f0 \cf2 32.2 (1999): 179-198.\uc0\u8232 Laufer, Roger. 
\f1 \cf2 Lesage: ou, Le M\'e9tier de Romancier
\f0 \cf2 . Paris: Gallimard, 1971.\uc0\u8232 Lee, Christopher. \'93Literary Adaptation and Market Value: Encounters with the Public in the 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	140.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Early Career of Roger McDonald.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Queensland Review 
\f0 \cf2 21.1 (2014): 39-48. Lefevere, Andr\'e9 and Bassnett, Susan. 
\f1 \cf2 Constructing Cultures: Essays on Literary Translation
\f0 \cf2 . 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	141.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
New York: Multilingual Matters Ltd., 1998.\uc0\u8232 Lefevere, Andr\'e9, ed. 
\f1 \cf2 Translation/History/Culture: A Sourcebook
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Routledge, 1992. Lecoq, Anne-Marie, ed. 
\f1 \cf2 la Querelle des anciens et des moderns CVIIe-XVII si\'e8cles
\f0 \cf2 . Paris: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	142.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Gallimard, 2001.\uc0\u8232 Lindeman, Yehudi. \'93Translation in the Renaissance: A Context and a Map.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Canadian Review of 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	143.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Comparative Literature 
\f0 \cf2 (1981): 204-16.\uc0\u8232 Lindey, Alexander. 
\f1 \cf2 Plagiarism and Originality
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Harper & Brothers Publishers, 1952. Lipking, Lawrence. 
\f1 \cf2 Samuel Johnson: The Life of an Author
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Harvard University 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	144.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Press, 1998.\uc0\u8232 Loewenstein, Joseph. 
\f1 \cf2 The Author\'92s Due: Printing and the Prehistory of 
\f0 \cf2 Copyright. Chicago: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	145.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
University of Chicago Press, 2002.\uc0\u8232 Long, A.A. \'93Stoicism in the Philosophical Tradition: Spinoza, Lipsius, Butler.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 The 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	146.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
301 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	147.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cambridge Companion to the Stoics
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Brad Inwood, 365-92. Cambridge: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	148.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cambridge University Press, 2003.\uc0\u8232 Lounsbury, Thomas R. 
\f1 \cf2 The Text of Shakespeare
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Charles Scribner\'92s, 1906.\uc0\u8232 Love, Harold. \'93Refining Rochester,\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Harvard Library Bulletin 
\f0 \cf2 7 (1996): 40-9.\uc0\u8232 Lowrie, Mich\'e8le. \'93Slander and Horse Law in Horace, 
\f1 \cf2 Sermones 
\f0 \cf2 2.1.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Law and Literature 
\f0 \cf2 17.3 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	149.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(2005): 405-431.\uc0\u8232 Lucy, Kathleen. \'93Eliza Haywood\'92s Amatory Aesthetic.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Eighteenth-Century Studies 
\f0 \cf2 39.3 (2006): 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	150.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
309-322.\uc0\u8232 Lyne, Raphael. \'93Dryden and the Complete Career.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Classical Literary Careers and their 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	151.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reception
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Philip Hardie and Helen Moore, 241-255. Cambridge: Cambridge 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	152.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
University Press, 2010.\uc0\u8232 MacCarthy, B. G. 
\f1 \cf2 The Female Pen: Women Writers and Novelists 1621-1818
\f0 \cf2 . New York: New 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	153.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
York University Press, 1994.\uc0\u8232 MacDonald, Hugh. 
\f1 \cf2 John Dryden: A Bibliography of Early Editions of Drydenia
\f0 \cf2 . London: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	154.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Dawsons of Pall Mall, 1966.\uc0\u8232 Macfarlane, Robert. 
\f1 \cf2 Original Copy: Plagiarism and Originality in Nineteenth-Century 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	155.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Literature
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007.\uc0\u8232 Mack, Maynard. 
\f1 \cf2 Alexander Pope: A Life
\f0 \cf2 . New York: W. W. Norton & Company, 1985.\uc0\u8232 Mack, Maynard. 
\f1 \cf2 The Garden and the City: Retirement and Politics in the Later Poetry of Pope, 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	156.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1731-1743
\f0 \cf2 . Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1969.\uc0\u8232 Mason, Tom and Rounce, Adam. \'93Alexander\'92s Feast, or the Power of Music: The Poem and its 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	157.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Readers.\'94 in 
\f1 \cf2 John Dryden: Tercentenary Essays
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Paul Hammond and David 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	158.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hopkins, 140-173. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2000.\uc0\u8232 Markley, Robert. 
\f1 \cf2 Two Edg\'92d Weapons: Style and Ideology in the Comedies of Etherege, 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	159.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Wycherley and Congreve
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1988.\uc0\u8232 McBurney, William. 
\f1 \cf2 A Check List of English Prose Fiction 1700-1739
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Harvard 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	160.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
University Press, 1960.\uc0\u8232 McDowell, Paula. 
\f1 \cf2 The Women of Grub Street: Press, Politics, and Gender in the London Literary 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	161.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Marketplace 1678-1730
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1998.\uc0\u8232 McFall, Liz. \'93What About the Old Cultural Intermediaries? An Historical Review of Advertising 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	162.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Producers.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Cultural Studies 
\f0 \cf2 16.4 (2002): 532-52. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	163.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
302 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	164.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
McGinnis, Reginald, ed. 
\f1 \cf2 Originality and Intellectual Property in the French and English Enlightenment
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Routledge, 2006. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	165.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
McKeon, Michael. \'93Historicizing Patriarchy: The Emergence of Gender Difference in England, 1660-1760.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Eighteenth-Century Studies 
\f0 \cf2 28.3 (1995): 295-322. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	166.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
McLaverty, James. 
\f1 \cf2 Pope, Print, and Meaning
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2001. McLeod, Randall [Random Cloud, pseud.]. \'93\'91The very names of the Persons\'92: Editing and the 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	167.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Invention of Dramatic Character.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Staging the Renaissance: Reinterpretations of Elizabethan and Jacobean Drama
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by David Scott Kastan and Peter Stallybrass, 88-96. New York: Routledge, 1991. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	168.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
McMurran, Mary Helen. 
\f1 \cf2 The Spread of Novels: Translation and Prose Fiction in the Eighteenth Century
\f0 \cf2 . Princeton: Princeton University Press. 2010. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	169.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Miles, Robert. \'93Europhobia: The Catholic Other in Horace Walpole and Charles Maturin.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 European Gothic: A Spirited Exchange 1760-1960
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Avril Horner, 84-103. New York: Manchester University Press, 2002. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	170.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mitchell, C. J. \'93Women in the Eighteenth-Century Book Trades.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Writers, Books, and Trade: an Eighteenth-Century English Miscellany for William B. Todd
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by O M Brack, Jr. New York: AMS Press, 1994. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	171.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Miegon, Anna. \'93Biographical Sketches of Principal Bluestocking Women.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Huntington Library Quarterly 
\f0 \cf2 65.1 (2002): 25-37. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	172.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Moore, Lisa. 
\f1 \cf2 Dangerous Intimacies: Toward a Sapphic History of the British Novel
\f0 \cf2 . Durham: Duke University Press, 1997. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	173.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Morini, Massimiliano. 
\f1 \cf2 Tudor Translation in Theory and Practice
\f0 \cf2 . Aldershot: Ashgate, 2006. Moul, Victoria. \'93Translation As Commentary? The Case of Ben Jonson\'92s 
\f1 \cf2 Ars Poetica
\f0 \cf2 .\'94 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	174.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Palimpsests 
\f0 \cf2 20 (2007): 59\'9677.\uc0\u8232 Muecke, Frances. \'93Law, Rhetoric, and Genre in Horace, Satires 2.1.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Homage to Horace: A 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	175.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bimillenary Celebration
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by S.J. Harrison, 203-18. Oxford: Oxford University 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	176.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Press, 1995.\uc0\u8232 Mullan, John. 
\f1 \cf2 Anonymity: A Secret History of English Literature
\f0 \cf2 . Princeton: Princeton University 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	177.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Press, 2007.\uc0\u8232 Murphy, Arthur. 
\f1 \cf2 The Life of David Garrick, Esq. 
\f0 \cf2 London, 1801.\uc0\u8232 Myers, Sylvia Harcstark. 
\f1 \cf2 The Bluestocking Circle: Women, Friendship, and the Life of the Mind 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	178.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
303 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	179.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
in Eighteenth-Century England
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1990.\uc0\u8232 Nestor, Deborah Jean. \'93Women\'92s Discourse and the Construction of the English Novel, from 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	180.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Eliza Haywood to Jane Austen.\'94 PhD diss., University of Michigan, 1993.\uc0\u8232 Nevett, Terry. \'93London \'92s Early Advertising Agents.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Journal of Advertising History 
\f0 \cf2 1 (1977): 15 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	181.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'9618.\uc0\u8232 Norman Austin, \'93Translation as Baptism: Dryden\'92s Lucretius,\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Arion: A Journal of Humanities 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	182.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and the Classics 
\f0 \cf2 7.4 (1968): 576-602.\uc0\u8232 Norton, David and Kuehn, Manfred. \'93The Foundations of Morality.\'94 in 
\f1 \cf2 The Cambridge History 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	183.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of Eighteenth-Century Philosophy
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Knud Haakonssen, 941-986. Cambridge: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	184.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cambridge University Press, 2000.\uc0\u8232 O\'92Brien, Karen. 
\f1 \cf2 Women and Enlightenment in Eighteenth-Century Britain
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	185.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cambridge University Press, 2009.\uc0\u8232 Oliensis, Ellen. 
\f1 \cf2 Horace and the Rhetoric of Authority
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	186.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1998.\uc0\u8232 Orr, Leah. \'93The Basis for Attribution in the Canon of Eliza Haywood.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The Library: The 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	187.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Transactions of the Bibliographical Society 
\f0 \cf2 12.4 (2011): 335-375.\uc0\u8232 Outhwaite, R. B. 
\f1 \cf2 Clandestine Marriage in England, 1500-1850
\f0 \cf2 . London: The Hambledon Press, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	188.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1995.\uc0\u8232 Paloposki, Outi. \'93Domestication and Foreignization.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Handbook of Translation Studies 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	189.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Volume 2
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Yves Gambier and Luc van Doorslaer, 40-42. Philadelphia: John 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	190.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Benjamin\'92s Publishing Co., 2011.\uc0\u8232 Parker, G. F. \'93\'91Talking Scripture out of Church\'92: Parson Adams and the Practicality of 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	191.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Translation.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Translation and Literature 
\f0 \cf2 14.2 (2005): 179-195.\uc0\u8232 Paz, Octavio. \'93Translations of Literature and Letters.\'94 Translated by Irene del Corral. In 
\f1 \cf2 Theories 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	192.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
of Translation from Dryden to Derrida
\f0 \cf2 , ed. R. Schulte and J. Biguenet, 152-63. Chicago: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	193.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
University of Chicago Press, 1992.\uc0\u8232 Peltz, Lucy and Eger, Elizabeth, eds. 
\f1 \cf2 Brilliant Women:18
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up16 th
\fs32 \up0 -Century Bluestockings
\f0 \cf2 . London: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	194.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
National Portrait Gallery, 2008.\uc0\u8232 Pettit, Alexander. \'93Adventures in Pornographic Places: Haywood\'92s 
\f1 \cf2 Tea-Table 
\f0 \cf2 and the 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	195.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Decentering of Moral Argument.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Papers on Language and Literature 
\f0 \cf2 38.3 (2002): 244- 69. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	196.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
304 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	197.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Pfister, Lauren F. \'93Chinese, Translation of Theological Terms Into.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Concise Encyclopedia of Language and Religion
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by J. Simpson and J. Sawyer, 118-122. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2001. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	198.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'97\'97\'97. \'93Translation and its Problems.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Encyclopedia of Chinese Philosophy
\f0 \cf2 , ed. Antonia S. Cua, 734-9. New York: Routledge, 2001. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	199.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Percy, Carol. \'93J. Matlock\'92s Young Ladies Guide to the Knowledge of the English tongue (1715): Contextualising the First Grammar of English for Ladies.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Transactions of the Philological Society 
\f0 \cf2 111.2 (2013): 223-241. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	200.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Pettitt, Clare. 
\f1 \cf2 Patent Inventions: Intellectual Property and the Victorian Novel
\f0 \cf2 . Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 2002. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	201.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Pittock, Murray. \'93Boswell and the Making of Johnson.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 The Interpretation of Samuel Johnson
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Jonathan Clark and Howard Erskine-Hill, 72-83. New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2012. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	202.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Porter, Roy. \'93Mixed Feelings: The Enlightenment and Sexuality in Eighteen-Century Britain.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Sexuality in Eighteenth-Century Britain
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Paul Bouce, 1-27. Manchester: Manchester University Press, 1982. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	203.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Power, Henry. 
\f1 \cf2 Epic into Novel: Henry Fielding, Scriblerian Satire, and the Consumption of Classical Literature
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2015. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	204.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Quantin, Jean-Louis. \'93The Fathers in Seventeenth-Century Anglican Theology.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 The Reception of the Church Fathers in the West: From the Carolingians to the Maurists. Edited by 
\f0 \cf2 Irena Backus, 987-1008. New York: E. J. Brill, 1997. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	205.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Raven, James. \'93Cheap and Cheerless: English Novels in German Translation and German Novels in English Translation 1770-1799.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 The Corvey Library and Anglo-German Cultural Exchanges, 1770-1837
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Werner Huber, 1-34. Munich: Wilhelm Fink Verlaug, 2004. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	206.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 The Business of Books: Booksellers and the English Book Trade 1450-1850
\f0 \cf2 . New Haven: Yale University Press, 2007. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	207.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 The English Novel 1770-1829: A Bibliographical Survey of Prose Fiction Published in the British Isles
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by James Raven and Antonia Forster. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2000. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	208.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Regan, Shaun. \'93Translating Rabelais: Sterne, Motteux, and the Culture of Politeness.\'94 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	209.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
305 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	210.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Translation and Literature 
\f0 \cf2 10.2 (2001): 174-199.\uc0\u8232 Richardson, John. 
\f1 \cf2 The Annals of London: A Year-by-Year Record of a Thousand Years of History
\f0 \cf2 . 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	211.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 2000.\uc0\u8232 Richetti, John J. 
\f1 \cf2 Popular Fiction before Richardson: Narrative Patterns 1700-1739
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	212.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Clarendon Press, 1969.\uc0\u8232 Roberts, David. \'93\'91Ranked Among the Best\'92: Translation and Cultural Agency in Restoration 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	213.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Translations of French Drama.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The Modern Language Review 
\f0 \cf2 108.2 (2013): 396-415. Robinson, Douglas. 
\f1 \cf2 Translation and Empire: Postcolonial Theories Explained
\f0 \cf2 . Manchester: St. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	214.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Jerome Publishing, 1997.\uc0\u8232 Rogers, Pat. 
\f1 \cf2 Alexander Pope: The Major Works
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2006. \'97\'97\'97. \'93Family, Kinship, and the Evidence of Subscription Lists: Dorothy Stanley and Arcadia 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	215.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Moderniz\'92d.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The Review of English Studies 
\f0 \cf2 66.275 (2015): 501-19.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 Grub Street: Studies in a Subculture
\f0 \cf2 . London: Methuen & Co Ltd, 1972.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 The Symbolic Design of 
\f0 \cf2 Windsor Forest: 
\f1 \cf2 Iconography, Pageant, and Prophecy in Pope\'92s 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	216.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Early Work
\f0 \cf2 . Newark: University of Delaware Press, 2004.\uc0\u8232 Rose, Mark. 
\f1 \cf2 Authors and Owners
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1993. \'97\'97\'97. \'93The Author as Proprietor: 
\f1 \cf2 Donaldson v. Beckett 
\f0 \cf2 and the Genealogy of Modern 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	217.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Authorship.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Of Authors and Origins
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Brad Sherman and Alain Strowel, 23- 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	218.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
55. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1994.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. \'93The Author in Court: Pope v. Curll (1741).\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Cultural Critique 
\f0 \cf2 21 (1992): 197-217. Ross, Trevor. \'93The Fate of Style in an Age of Intellectual Property.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 ELH 
\f0 \cf2 80.3 (2013): 747-82. Rounce, Adam. Adam
\f1 \cf2 : The Unfulfilled Literary Life
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	219.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2013.\uc0\u8232 Rudd, Niall. \'93Pope\'92s Farewell to Horace: \'91Dialogue\'92 I, 1-22.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Translation and Literature 
\f0 \cf2 14.2 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	220.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(2005): 240-5.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 The Satires of Horace
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1966.\uc0\u8232 Rumbold, Valerie. Introduction to 
\f1 \cf2 The Dunciad in Four Books
\f0 \cf2 , by Alexander Pope, 1-20. New 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	221.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
York: Routledge, 2009.\uc0\u8232 Saintsbury, George. 
\f1 \cf2 History of Criticism and Literary Taste in Europe
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Dodd, Mead, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	222.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and Co., 1902.\uc0\u8232 Sairio, Anni. \'93Language and Letters of the Bluestocking Network. Sociolinguistic Issues in 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	223.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
306 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	224.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Eighteenth-Century Epistolary English.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Neuphilologische Mitteilungen 
\f0 \cf2 110.4 (2009): 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	225.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
526-528.\uc0\u8232 Sallis, Eva. 
\f1 \cf2 Sheharazade through the Looking Glass: The Metamorphosis of the Thousand and 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	226.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
One Nights
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Routledge, 1999.\uc0\u8232 Saxton, Kirsten T. and Bocchicchio, Rebecca P., eds. 
\f1 \cf2 The Passionate Fictions of Eliza Haywood: 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	227.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Essays on her Life and Work
\f0 \cf2 . Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 2000. Schellenberg, Betty A. 
\f1 \cf2 Literary Coteries and the Making of Modern Print Culture 1740-1790
\f0 \cf2 . 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	228.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2016.\uc0\u8232 Schleiermacher, Friedrich. 
\f1 \cf2 Friedrich Schleiermacher: S\'e4mmtliche Werke, Dritte Abtheilung: Zur 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	229.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Philosophie
\f0 \cf2 . Berlin: Reimer, 1938.\uc0\u8232 Schofield, Mary Anne. 
\f1 \cf2 Eliza Haywood
\f0 \cf2 . Boston: Twayne Publishers, 1985.\uc0\u8232 Sher, Richard B. \'93Patrons, Publishers, and Places,\'94 in 
\f1 \cf2 The Enlightenment and the Book: Scottish 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	230.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Authors and Their Publishers in Eighteenth-Century Britain, Ireland, and America
\f0 \cf2 . 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	231.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2007.\uc0\u8232 Sherburn, George. 
\f1 \cf2 The Early Career of Alexander Pope
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1934. \'97\'97\'97. \'93\'91Timon\'92s Villa\'92 and Cannons.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The Huntington Library Bulletin 
\f0 \cf2 8 (1935): 131-152. Shirane, Haruo. \'93Issues in Canon Formation.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Inventing the Classics: Modernity, National 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	232.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Identity, and Japanese Literature
\f0 \cf2 , ed. Haruo Shirane and Tomi Suzuku, 1-27. Stanford: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	233.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Stanford University Press, 2000.\uc0\u8232 Simon, Sherry. 
\f1 \cf2 Gender in Translation: Cultural Identity and the Politics of Transmission
\f0 \cf2 . New 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	234.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
York: Routledge, 1996.\uc0\u8232 Simonsuuri, Kirsti. 
\f1 \cf2 Homer\'92s Original Genius: Eighteenth-Century Notions of the Early Greek 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	235.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Epic (1688-1798)
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1979.\uc0\u8232 Sisman, Adam. 
\f1 \cf2 Boswell\'92s Presumptuous Task
\f0 \cf2 . London: Hamish Hamilton, 2000. Smith, Amy. \'93Naming the Un
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u8208 
\f0 \cf2 \'92Familiar\'92: Formal Letters and Travel Narratives in Late 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	236.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Seventeenth
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u8208  
\f0 \cf2 And Eighteenth
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u8208 
\f0 \cf2 Century Britain.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Review of English Studies 
\f0 \cf2 54 (2003): 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	237.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
178-202.\uc0\u8232 Solomon, Harry M. 
\f1 \cf2 The Rise of Robert Dodsley: Creating the New Age of Print
\f0 \cf2 . Carbondale: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	238.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Southern Illinois University Press, 1996.\uc0\u8232 Sowerby, Robin. \'93Dryden and Homer.\'94 PhD diss. University of Cambridge, 1975. Spedding, Patrick. 
\f1 \cf2 A Bibliography of Eliza Haywood
\f0 \cf2 . London: Pickering & Chatto, 2004. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	239.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
307 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	240.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Spencer, Jane. 
\f1 \cf2 The Rise of the Woman Novelist: From Aphra Behn to Jane Austen
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Blackwell, 1986. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	241.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sprenger-Holtkamp, Brigitte. \'93Miss Epictetus, or, The Learned Eliza: A Literary Biography of Elizabeth Carter,\'94 PhD diss., University of London, 1996. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	242.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Stack, Frank. 
\f1 \cf2 Pope and Horace: Studies in Imitation
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1985. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	243.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Stark, Susanne. 
\f1 \cf2 \'91Behind Inverted Commas\'92: Translation and Anglo-German Cultural Relation in the Nineteenth Century
\f0 \cf2 . Clevedon: Multilingual Matters, Ltd, 1999. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	244.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
St.Andr\'e9, James. \'93Retranslation as Argument: Canon Formation, Professionalization, and International Rivalry in 19th Century Sinological Translation.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Cadernos de Tradu\'e7\'e3o 
\f0 \cf2 11.1 (2003): 59-93. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	245.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
St. Clair, William. \'93Metaphors of Intellectual Property.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Privilege and Property: Essays on the History of Copyright
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Ronan Deazley, Martin Kretschmer, and Lionel Bently, 369-396. Cambridge: Open Book Publishers, 2010. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	246.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Steele, Kathryn L. \'93Hester Mulso Chapone and the Problem of the Individual Reader.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The Eighteenth Century 
\f0 \cf2 53.4 (2012): 473-491. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	247.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Steiger, Richard. 
\f1 \cf2 The English and Latin Texts of Pope\'92s 
\f0 \cf2 Imitations of Horace. New York: Garland Publishing, Inc., 1988. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	248.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Stephanson, Raymond. 
\f1 \cf2 The Yard of Wit: Male Creativity and Sexuality, 1650-1750
\f0 \cf2 . Philadelphia: The University of Pennsylvania Press, 2004. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	249.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Stern, Simon. \'93Copyright, Originality, and the Public Domain in Eighteenth-Century England.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Originality and. Intellectual Property in the French and English Enlightenment
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Reginald McGinnis, 69-101. New York: Routledge, 2008. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	250.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Stone, Lawrence. 
\f1 \cf2 Uncertain Unions: Marriage in England 1660-1753
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1992. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	251.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Straight, Julie. \'93Religious Controversy in Hester Chapone\'92s Letters on the Improvement of the Mind.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Nineteenth Century Contexts 
\f0 \cf2 27.4 (2005): 315-334. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	252.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Strawn, Morgan. \'93Homer, Sentimentalism, and Pope\'92s Translation of \'91The Iliad.\'92\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Studies in English Literature 
\f0 \cf2 53.3 (2012): 585-608. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	253.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sturm, Ernest. \'93Le Sopha, and: Cr\'e9billon fils ou la politique dans le boudoir, and: Songe, illusion, \'e9garement dans les romans de Cr\'e9billon (review).\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Eighteenth-Century Fiction 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	254.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
308 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	255.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
11.1 (1998): 123-128.\uc0\u8232 Suarez SJ, Michael F. \'93The Production and Consumption of the Eighteenth-Century Poetic 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	256.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Miscellany.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Books and Their Readers in Eighteenth-Century England: New Essays
\f0 \cf2 , 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	257.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ed. Isabel Rivers, 217-51. London Continuum, 2001.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. Introduction to 
\f1 \cf2 A Collection of Poems by Several Hands
\f0 \cf2 . London: Routledge, 1997. Sutherland, Kathryn. \'93Writings on Education and Conduct: Arguments for Female 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	258.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Improvements.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Women and Literature in Britain 1700-1800
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Vivien Jones, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	259.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
45-45. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1995.\uc0\u8232 Taylor, Philip M. 
\f1 \cf2 Munitions of the Mind: A History of Propaganda
\f0 \cf2 . Manchester: Manchester 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	260.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
University Press, 2003.\uc0\u8232 Terry, Richard. 
\f1 \cf2 The Plagiarism Allegation in English Literature From Butler to Sterne
\f0 \cf2 . New 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	261.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2010.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. \'93Pope and Plagiarism.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The Modern Language Review 
\f0 \cf2 100.3 (2005), 593\'96608. Tierney, James. \'93Advertisements for Books in London Newspapers, 1760-1785.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Studies in 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	262.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Eighteenth-Century Culture 
\f0 \cf2 30 (2001): 153-64.\uc0\u8232 Titone, Connie. \'93Chapone, Genlis, and Macaulay: On Human Nature and the Purposes of 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	263.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Education.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Counterpoints 
\f0 \cf2 171 (2004): 69-84.\uc0\u8232 Todd, Janet. 
\f1 \cf2 The Secret Life of Aphra Behn
\f0 \cf2 . New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press, 1996. \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 The Sign of Angellica: Women, Writing and Fiction 1660-1800
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Columbia 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	264.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
University Press, 1989.\uc0\u8232 Tomlinson, Charles. \'93Why Dryden\'92s Translations Matter.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Translation and Literature 
\f0 \cf2 10.1 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	265.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(2001): 3-20.\uc0\u8232 Turner, James Grantham. \'93Pope\'92s Libertine Self-fashioning.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The Eighteenth Century 
\f0 \cf2 29.2 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	266.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(1988): 123-144.\uc0\u8232 Urstad, Tone Sundt. 
\f1 \cf2 Sir Robert Walpole\'92s Poets: The Use of Literature as Pro-Government 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	267.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Propaganda, 1721-1742
\f0 \cf2 . Newark: University of Delaware Press, 1999.\uc0\u8232 Vance, Norman. 
\f1 \cf2 The Victorians and Ancient Rome
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Blackwell Publishing, 1997. Vitto, Cindy L. \'93The Virtuous Pagan in Middle English Literature.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Transactions of the 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	268.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
American Philosophical Society 
\f0 \cf2 79.5 (1989): 1-100.\uc0\u8232 Venuti, Lawrence. 
\f1 \cf2 The Translator\'92s Invisibility: A History of Translation
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Routledge, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	269.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2008. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	270.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
309 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	271.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Walker, Grey. 
\f1 \cf2 Writing Under Tyranny: English Literature and the Henrician Reformation
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2005. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	272.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Walker, Keith. \'93Jacob Tonson, Bookseller.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 The American Scholar 
\f0 \cf2 61 (1992): 424-30. Wallace, Jennifer. \'93Confined and Exposed: Elizabeth Carter\'92s Classical Translations.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Tulsa 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	273.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Studies in Women\'92s Literature 
\f0 \cf2 22.2 (2003): 315-34.\uc0\u8232 Warner, William Beatty. 
\f1 \cf2 Licensing Entertainment: The Elevation of Novel Reading in Britain, 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	274.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1684\'961750
\f0 \cf2 . Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1998.\uc0\u8232 Watson, George, ed. 
\f1 \cf2 The New Cambridge Bibliography of English Literature, Volume 2 1660- 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	275.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1800
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1971
\f1 \cf2 .\uc0\u8232 
\f0 \cf2 Wawn, Andrew. 
\f1 \cf2 The Vikings and the Victorians: Inventing the Old North in Nineteenth-Century 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	276.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Britain
\f0 \cf2 . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000.\uc0\u8232 Weber, Harold. \'93A \'91double Portion of his Father\'92s Art\'92: Congreve, Dryden, Jonson and the 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	277.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Drama of Theatrical Succession.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Criticism 
\f0 \cf2 39.3 (1997): 359-382.\uc0\u8232 Webb, R. K. \'93From Toleration to Religious Liberty.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Liberty Secured? Britain before and after 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	278.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1688
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by J.R. Jones, 158-199. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1992. Weinbrot, Howard D. \'93Alexander Pope and Madame Dacier\'92s Homer: Conjectures concerning 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	279.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cardinal Dubois, Sir Luke Schaub, and Samuel Buckley.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Huntington Library Quarterly 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	280.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
62.1 (1999): 1-23.\uc0\u8232 Weinbrot, Howard D. 
\f1 \cf2 Alexander Pope and the Traditions of Formal Verse Satire
\f0 \cf2 . Princeton: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	281.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Princeton University Press, 1982.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. \'93Pope and the Classics.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 The Cambridge Companion to Alexander Pope
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	282.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Pat Rogers, 76-88. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2007.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. \'93\'91What Must the World Think of Me?\'92: Pope, Madame Dacier, and Homer: The 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	283.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Anatomy of a Quarrel.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Eighteenth-Century Contexts: Historical Inquiries in Honor of Phillip Harth
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Howard D. Weinbrot, Peter J. Schakel, and Stepehen E. Karian, 183-206. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 2001. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	284.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Weissbort, Daniel and Eysteinsson, \'c1str\'e1\'f0ur, eds. 
\f1 \cf2 Translation\'96Theory and Practice: A Historical Reader
\f0 \cf2 . Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2006. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	285.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Whicher, George Frisbie. 
\f1 \cf2 The Life and Romances of Mrs. Eliza Haywood
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Columbia University Press, 1915. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	286.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Williams, Andrew P, ed. \'93Soft Women and Softer Men: The Libertine Maintenance of Masculine 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	287.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
310 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	288.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Identity.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 The Image of Manhood in Early Modern 
\f0 \cf2 Literature. Westport: Greenwood 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	289.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Press, 1999.\uc0\u8232 Williams, Carolyn. \'93The Consistency of Elizabeth Carter.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 Tradition in Transition: Women 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	290.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Writers, Marginal Texts, and the Eighteenth- Century Canon
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Alvaro Ribeiro 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	291.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and James G. Basker, 3-24. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1996.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 Pope, Homer, and Manliness
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Routledge, 1993.\uc0\u8232 Wilputte, Earla. Introduction to 
\f1 \cf2 The Adventures of Eovaii
\f0 \cf2 , by Eliza Haywood, 1-34. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	292.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Peterborough: Broadview Press, 1999.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 Passion and Language in Eighteenth-Century Literature: The Aesthetic Sublime in the 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	293.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Work of Eliza Haywood, Aaron Hill, and Martha Fowke
\f0 \cf2 . New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	294.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2014.\uc0\u8232 Wimsatt, William Kurtz. 
\f1 \cf2 The Portraits of Alexander Pope
\f0 \cf2 . London: Yale University Press, 1965. Winn, James. 
\f1 \cf2 A Window in the Bosom: The Letters of Alexander Pope
\f0 \cf2 . Hamden: Archon Books, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	295.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1977.\uc0\u8232 Winston, Jessica. \'93Seneca in Early Elizabethan England,\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Renaissance Quarterly 
\f0 \cf2 59.1 (2006): 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	296.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
29\'9658.\uc0\u8232 Woodbridge, Linda. 
\f1 \cf2 Women and the English Renaissance: Literature and Nature of Womankind, 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	297.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1540-1620
\f0 \cf2 . Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1984.\uc0\u8232 Worth-Stylianou, Valerie. \'93
\f1 \cf2 Translatio 
\f0 \cf2 and Translation in the Renaissance: from Italy to France,\'94 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	298.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
in 
\f1 \cf2 The Renaissance
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Glyn P. Norton. Vol. 3 of 
\f1 \cf2 The Cambridge History of 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	299.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Literary Criticism
\f0 \cf2 , 127\'9635. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999.\uc0\u8232 Wright, Gillian. \'93Women Reading Epictetus.\'94 
\f1 \cf2 Women\'92s Writing 
\f0 \cf2 14.2 (2007): 321-33. Wright, Austin. 
\f1 \cf2 Joseph Spence: A Critical Biography
\f0 \cf2 . Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	300.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1950.\uc0\u8232 Wykes, David. 
\f1 \cf2 A Preface to Dryden
\f0 \cf2 . London: Longman Publishing Group, 1977.\uc0\u8232 Young, Elizabeth Marie. 
\f1 \cf2 Translation as Muse: Poetic Translation in Catullus\'92s Rome
\f0 \cf2 . Chicago: 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	301.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
University of Chicago Press, 2015.\uc0\u8232 Zwicker, Steven. \'93Dryden and the Problem of Literary Modernity.\'94 In 
\f1 \cf2 The Cambridge 
\fs24 \cf2 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	302.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Companion to Dryden
\f0 \cf2 . Edited by Steven Zwicker, 280-5. New York: Cambridge 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	303.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
University Press, 2004.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 Dryden\'92s Political Poetry: The Typology of King and Nation
\f0 \cf2 . Providence: Brown 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	304.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
311 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	305.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
University Press, 1972.\uc0\u8232 \'97\'97\'97. 
\f1 \cf2 Politics and Language in Dryden\'92s Poetry
\f0 \cf2 . New Jersey: Princeton University Press, 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	306.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1984. 
\f1\fs24 \
}