{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 In chapter three, I re-examine my core databases, but no longer with Smith as a focalizing lens. Instead, I undertake computational assessment and comparison of the databases\'92 contents. My research examines the authorship and subject matter (broadly construed) of all titles printed in England between 1789 and 1799 which are included in \cf2 each database\cf0 . I calculate the proportion of the titles in each resource that are attributed to men, to women, or are left unsigned. \cf2 My naive hypothesis is that, as each resource demanded a greater investment of scholarly effort in each text, women and unsigned writers will grow increasingly underrepresented, so that the ECCO-TCP corpus will have substantially different demographics than the ESTC. \cf0 Using the titles of these works and a topic modelling tool\cf2  which I have built\cf0 , I also roughly identify the subject matter of each title, categorizing works into broad genres such as drama, poetry, Romance, History, or sermons. \cf2 Although the topic modelling tool is able to cluster what it sees as \'93similar\'94 titles, individual interpretation is required to make these clusters meaningful. A substantial portion of chapter three is dedicated to discussing how scholars apply genre categories retrospectively to clusters of texts, how publishers sought to advertise their texts to particular audiences, and how the categories I develop ought to be understood in the context of existing eighteenth century scholarship on print {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5BD6671A-C5F5-44E1-9D59-2CDF062B3D4B"}}{\fldrslt genres.}} Using my resulting genre classifications, \cf0 I am then able to compare these four resources to each other, and to existing scholarly work on the print production of the 1790s. For example, I compare each resource\'92s holdings to the statistics on the English novel included in Garside, Raven and Sch\'f6werling\'92s 
\i Bibliographical Survey of Prose Fiction
\i0 . \cf2 In examining genres, I anticipate discovering a preference, in the more specialized resources, for more \'93literary\'94 forms of writing.\
I will also correlate gender and genre. This preference for particular kinds of writing might explain changes in gender representation of smaller corpora. If the novel is the domain of women, for example, a corpus can underrepresent women by underrepresenting novels. Or it could include a representative number of novels, but disproportionately include novels by men. My investigation allows me to identify the patterns of exclusion. Asking bibliographical questions of multiple corpora, in order to learn about the corpora themselves, emphasizes an under-examined stage of text mining research, and provides a basis for other scholars to use these corpora more precisely. It also provides the foundation for my own 
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}