{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 In designing this tool, I want to take\cf3  advantage of one of the unique features of eighteenth century literature: long and descriptive titles. \cf2 In most periods of literary history, the information that gets input in the \'93title\'94 field of a database offers a scholar very little to work with. \cf3 Eighteenth century books were advertised and sold without any visual cues as to their contents; they attracted readers through the strength of their title pages alone.\cf2  Bibliographers have consistently chosen to record a large amount of this title page information.\cf3  Their lengthy titles therefore intentionally communicate their genres, and, as my paper demonstrates, their messages can be distilled through topic modelling. I present my results for the 52,000 titles printed in England between 1789 and 1799, and discuss the resulting ontology of generic categories. As I demonstrate, inferring genres based on how texts describe themselves produces a very different picture of the categories of textual production than the post-facto descriptions that later generations of scholars have produced. I am then able to use these subject categories to compare the contents of several commonly-used digital resources, to identify how representative of eighteenth century literature as a whole each database is. Finally, I discuss how my methods might be adapted to address similar gaps in metadata in related fields.}