{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 The 1990s, which saw an explosion of activity fuelled by the popularization of the internet for crowdsourced group-knowledge projects like Project Gutenberg and Wikipedia, were quieter for eighteenth-century academic databases. The second edition of the STC completed its publication in 1991, with a set of exhaustive indexes to its material. \cf0 Its completion in 1991 also marked the end of the ability of its publisher and sponsor, the Bibliographical Society, to support {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4B0AA403-93DC-4EEE-A8AA-7015106A7B82"}}{\fldrslt it.}} Meanwhile, the facsimiles making up the 
\i Eighteenth Century Collection 
\i0 changed hands: by 1997, Research Publications, Inc had become Primary Source Media. In 1998, the Thomson Corporation merged Primary Source Media with two other subsidiaries\'97Gale Research and the Information Access Company (IAC)\'97to create a new company called The Gale Group. In 1999, the ESTC officially took over responsibility for hosting and updating STC {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://75605F73-9F11-474E-ABA9-EDDFEEAEF8E8"}}{\fldrslt data.}}\
The 1990s were more more momentous for what would become Early English Books Online. University Microfilms had begun microfilming books in the 1980s as the chief rival for Research Publications, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2C7B7D35-827C-4129-AAA4-1A5FF875E4A6"}}{\fldrslt Inc,}} and by the late 1990s, several thousand reels had been published in two series: \'91Early English Books, 1475\'961640\'92 and \'91Early English Books, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C0E9B80F-95C9-4A68-9C51-1A02FAC15CB1"}}{\fldrslt 1641\'961700\'92.\'94}} University Microfilms became ProQuest, and in 1998, ProQuest began to make available digitised copies of its microfilms across the internet to subscribing institutions \'97 the early days of Early English Books Online (EEBO). The next year, the Text Creation Partnership was formed, to produce human-corrected but machine-readable transcripts of EEBO texts. \cf3 \'93The Text Creation Partnership started, in 1999, as a collaboration between the university libraries of Michigan and Oxford, the Council on Library and Information Resources, and the publisher of Early English Books Online, Proquest. The aim was to create high quality \'91standardized, digitally-encoded electronic text editions\'92 starting with 25,000 titles from Early English Books {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DBBCABB6-23ED-4DFB-A460-34FF120D2426"}}{\fldrslt Online.\'94}}}