{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \'93Having begun as an actress, courtesan and fashion icon, she broke onto the late eighteenth-century literary scene first as that embodiment of sensibility, a Della Cruscan poet. Forging conversation through her writing, she proceeded to make herself a central literary figure of the 1790s, creating authorial identities inextricably linked with other Romantic writers. A prolific writer and increasingly radical thinker, she published in the last ten years of her life four verse collections, six individual long poems, a sonnet sequence, seven novels, two plays, a translation, three political essays, hundreds of poems for different / newspapers and a draft of her memoirs.\'94 (Cross 1-2)\cf2 \
\
\'93Susan Luther, Stuart Curran, Judith Pascoe, Eleanor Ty and  Sharon  Setzer  in  the  mid-1990s  launched  an  intense  period  of  scholarly  work  on  Robinson.  Highlighting  Robinson\'92s  writing  \'93as  a  kind  of  cultural  barometer  of  aesthetic  changes  [that]  initiate[s]  or  engage[s]  in  her  society\'92s  every  literary  preoccupation\'94  (20),  Pascoe\'92s  groundbreaking  Romantic Theatricality  (1997),  in  particular,  situated  Robinson\'92s  pseudonymous  theatrical  writing  at  the  center  of  late  eighteenth-century  literary  culture.19 Since then, Robinson\'92s performativity has been the dominant lens through which her writing and her career have been interpreted. According to Pascoe, Robinson enacted in her writing an ever-shifting public identity, a \'93fluid theatricality\'94 (9) that was both her trademark and an embodiment of \'93theatrical modes of representation\'94 (7) that were constitutive of Romantic authorial identity. The theater provided the \'93central vehicle\'94 for her multiple transformations beyond the stage, supplying \'93an identifiable collection of practices  at  once  portable  and  applicable  to  other  cultural  areas\'94  (Gamer  and T. Robinson 220). These other areas include her interaction with other Romantic poets, the other primary lens for interpreting Robinson\'92s writing, in particular her relations with Coleridge and the Della Cruscans, to a lesser extent Wordsworth and, more recently, Southey and Smith.\'94 (Cross 6)\
\'93I seek to combine these two approaches, taking a cue from Daniel Robinson\'92s\cf3  \cf2 The  Poetry  of  Mary  Robinson:  Form  and  Fame  (2011),  which  argues  for  Robinson\'92s obsession with \'93social interaction and literary intertextuality ... [as a means] to achieve professional legitimacy, recognition and fame\'94 (8) as an author, and which minutely traces the web of networks that Robinson created  through  her  pseudonymous  poetics  and  her  formal  virtuosity.  Rather  than  focusing  on  Robinson\'92s  \'93avatars,\'94  this  book  foregrounds  her / professional and sympathetic engagements with specific writers; it is here, I contend, that she constructed her literary reputation. Self-inventive as they are, these exchanges remained singular and distinct from one another rather than constituting a network. They were addressed to particular individuals and were as much about intimacy and sympathetic exchange as they were about performativity. Indeed, it is the combination of these properties in her allusive exchanges\'97seemingly private yet meant to be public (rather than the private made public)\'97that distinguishes her dialogues. By interanimat-ing  subject  and  object,  speaker  and  interlocutor,  these  dialogues  produce  mutual obligations that simultaneously authorize self and other. In the pro-cess, they reveal a writer who could only, paradoxically, achieve an authorial identity through conversation with others.\'94 (6-7)\cf3 \
\
Dialogue  is,  of  course,  performative,  and  Robinson\'92s  exchanges  are  especially  so.  As  Michael  Gamer  and  Terry  Robinson  have  argued,  Mary  Robinson  exploited  the  parallels  between  dramatic  and  textual  spaces  by  transporting theatre\'92s \'93mode of allusive practice\'94 from the theatre into the many  other  public  arenas  in  which  she  participated  (254).  But  dialogue,  especially written dialogue, is also a different kind of performance from the theater  because  of  the  intertextuality  of  the  exchange.  It  shifts  the  visual,  public  dynamic  of  the  theater  to  the  more  private  realm  of  textuality  in  which surface and depth, self and other become blurred.  (Cross 7)\
\
Most commentators on Robinson\'92s literary production have focused on individual texts\'97either her poetry or fiction, not both\'97and followed the responses of her reviewers, reading the poetry as better crafted, a serious bid for literary reputation in a masculine tradition, and the novels as hastily produced, a matter of economic exigency and part of women\'92s feminizing dominance of the fiction market. See, for example, the reviews of Walsingham and D. Robinson, Poetry (11\'9612). (Cross 12)\
\
The  publication  of  the  eight-volume  complete  Works  by  Mary  Robinson  by  Pickering  and  Chatto  (2009\'962010),  under  the  direction  of  William  Brewer,  marked  Robinson\'92s  official  reentrance  into  the  literary  canon.  All  citations  of  Robinson\'92s work will be from this edition unless indicated otherwise and will be cited as M RW by volume and page. Robinson\'92s writing is also available in individual editions by Broadview and Oxford, as well as others, and online at Romantic Circles. There are three recent biographies Byrne (2004), Davenport (2006) and Gristwood (2005). See also Bass, The Green Dragoon. (Cross 12)\
\
While  Robinson\'92s  biography  has  produced  interpretations  of  her  as  celebrity  or  fallen  woman,  audacious  or  meretricious,  her  authorship  has  led  to  inter-pretations  that  portray  her  as  a  Sapphic  poet  of  sensibility  (McGann,  Poetics of Sensibility [ch.10]), a revolutionary novelist (Garnai, Revolutionary), and a radical polemicist, fighting for the rights of man and woman (Hodson). These representations  have  also  been  qualified  by  attention  to  her  disdain  for  other  women writers and her sympathy for the Prince of Wales (D. Robinson). (Cross 13)\
\
\'93Scholarship  on  Robinson  has  proliferated  since  Pascoe\'92s  study  and  has  been  wide-ranging  in  scope,  including  further  studies  analyzing  her  performative  subjectivity and her chameleonic self-fashioning; her position as a woman writer within  late  eighteenth-century  culture;  her  urban  focus;  her  adaptations  of different genres, including the sonnet, ode, lyric, romance and the gothic novel; her relationships with specific writers, primarily poets, especially Coleridge; and her radical politics, as well as essays offering pedagogical strategies and tracing publication  history.  On  her  performative  subjectivity  and  her  chameleonic  self-fashioning  more  generally,  see  Gamer  and  T.  Robinson;  Mellor,  \'93Making  an  Exhibition\'94;  Pascoe,  Romantic Theatricality. Specific  angles  on  this  theme  include  attention  to  Robinson\'92s  celebrity  status  (Brock,  Mole);  masquerade  (Cullen, Sigler); fashion (Fay); her portraits (Anca, Munteanu); her use of pseudonyms (Pascoe, Wilson); cross-dressing (Binhammer, \'93Female Homosociality\'94; Shaffer,  \'93Gender,  Pain\'94  and  \'93Cross-Dressing\'94;  Setzer,  \'93The  Dying  Game\'94);  her  acting  career  (Barbour,  \'93Garrick\'92s  Version\'94;  Eger);  sylphs  (Labbe,  \'93Mary  Robinson\'92s Sylphid Self\'94); and polygraphs (Brewer, \'93Subverting Individuality\'94). On her position as a woman writer within late-eighteenth-century culture, see especially Labbe, \'93Selling One\'92s Sorrows\'94; Mellor; Miskolcze; Peterson; Ty. On her  adaptations  of  different  genres,  see,  for  example,  Barfoot,  D. Robinson, Poetry, and  Golding  (the  sonnet);  D.  Robinson  and  Pascoe,  Introduction  to  MRSP (ode); Curran, \'93Romantic Poetry: The \'93I\'94 Altered\'94 and \'93Mary Robinson and  the  New  Lyric\'94  (lyric);  Labbe,  Romantic  Paradox,  (romance);  Brewer,  \'93Mary Robinson as a Dramatist\'94 (drama); Ford, Setzer, Ty (the novel); Peterson, Runge  and  Setzer,  \'93Gothic  Structure\'94  (memoirs);  political  tract  (Hodson);Vargo, \'93Tabitha Bramble\'94 (lyrical tale); Close and Labbe, \'93Romance and Vio-lence\'94 (gothic); Craciun, \'93Mary Robinson and the Monthly Magazine,\'94 Hessel and  Pascoe,  Romantic  Theatricality  (newspaper  publication).  On  Robinson\'92s  politics,  see  Brewer,  \'93Egalitarianism\'94;  Craciun,  \'93Violence  against  Difference\'94;  Garnai;  Guest;  Markley;  Russo.  See  Wilson  and  Vernooy-Eep  for  pedagogical  strategies and Hawley; Fergus and Thaddeus; Hoagwood and Ledbetter; Kurtz and Womer for book history. On Robinson and Marie Antoinette, see Craciun  / and Garnai. On Robinson and race, see Garcia and Shelley Jones. Robinson\'92s texts  have  also  been  productively  approached  through  distinctive  thematics  such as dreams (D. Robinson, \'93Coleridge, Mary Robinson and the Prosody of Dreams\'94), luxury (Saglia, \'93Commerce, Luxury\'94), flies (Cross \'93To \'93buzz lament-ing  doings  in  the  air\'92\'94),  vacancy  (Singer),  and  most  recently,  \'93feral  openness\'94  (Milne).\'94 (Cross 13-14)}