{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Some important threads of this history of mass digital archives begins long before the invention of the computer, with the bibliographic collections which served as the extant solutions to the challenge of large-scale text-tracking. 
\i \cf2 T\cf0 he Pollard and Redgrave Short-Title Catalogue for 1476\'961640
\i0  first appeared in 1926\cf2 .\cf0  Donald Wing\'92s catalogue for 1641\'961700 appeared in 1951.\cf2  \cf0 After the completion of Wing\'92s STC, \'93[e]xploratory studies, poorly funded and inadequate though they {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9ADC8082-29DF-42AE-B269-2256409C56CA"}}{\fldrslt were\'94}} throughout the 1950s and 60s pursued the feasibility of systematically accounting for the much larger body of printed work produced in the eighteenth century. Concurrently, Wing\'92s seventeenth-century STC was underwent redevelopment into a second edition, overseen by Katharine Pantzer. The second edition of Wing\'92s STC \cf2 published its first volume\cf0  in 1976\cf2 . \cf0 This second edition \'93represented a vast development of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://207B2064-EF52-41D4-BA27-E0132EC3A59D"}}{\fldrslt original,\'94}} incorporating thousands of new entries, expanding the titles, and adding explanatory notes and headnotes.\
\cf2 The English Short Title Catalogue\cf0  began as the Eighteenth Century Short Title Catalogue in the 1970s, operating in a similar line as the original Pollard and Redgrave Short-Title Catalogue for 1476\'961640 and Donald Wing\'92s catalogue for 1641\'961700\cf2 . \cf0 These catalogues established the ambitious simplicity of the ESTC: to accurately describe every edition of every printed work in English or from the United Kingdom.\cf2  \cf0 The Eighteenth Century Short Title Catalogue began properly in 1976, at a conference jointly sponsored by the British Library and the American Society for Eighteenth Century Studies. Here, \'93bibliographers and librarians attempted both to arrive at a consensus of the size of the task and the methodology that would have to be adopted to achieve a union catalogue. However, until the works were catalogued, it would not be possible to answer basic questions (such as the potential number of extant items) which would predetermine working methods. The very fact that they found it difficult to agree for want of sound and accepted figures indicated the need for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E072D920-0C6F-4F9B-A5C0-14D68C0F91CB"}}{\fldrslt ESTC.\'94}} A pilot project began at the British Library in 1977, under the direction of Robin Alston.\cf2  \cf0 Unlike earlier Short-Title Catalogues, which appeared as lengthly print publication\cf2 s\cf0 , the Eighteenth-Century Short Title Catalogue was conceived as digital from the beginning. As a result, \'93ESTC records existed in digital form long before many humanists saw computer technology as central to their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7553559F-9808-4C5D-B1F4-F9DB88A1D941"}}{\fldrslt work.\'94}}  Robin Alston and Mervyn Jannetta developed their own cataloguing rules, distinct from the Library of Congress MARC and UK MARC {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AEC0CCB2-A9C0-4329-AABA-4B36A022FF82"}}{\fldrslt standards.}} Once these standards were established, the British Library began to re-catalogue its own holdings, and in 1979 libraries in the United States, Germany, and Australia undertook to supplement them. In these international collaborations, \'93Where ESTC records already existed, these were adopted as the [new] record and only those works not held in the ESTC base file were catalogued {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FB8CFA5E-2FF7-47CD-B880-E5CF74E75B0C"}}{\fldrslt again.\'94}}}