{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;
\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;
\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 [My current draft of Chapter 2 is 20,000 words long, but lacks almost all of the framing and analysis which would make it useful for someone else to read. Extraneous details need to be cut, quotations need to be integrated into paragraphs, and my own analysis needs to be stated for an outside audience. Rather than give you something unreadable, I thought it would be most useful to extract some of the more polished sections of the chapter, with a few notes on what I am eliding.]\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf3 Ian Gadd argues that critiques of digital databases often not based on the right grounds: \'93the real risk of scholarly misuse of \cf4 [Early English Books Online]\cf3  is less to do with the physical features of early printed books that it fails, one way or another, to represent (problematic though these are) and more to do with a lack of an informed knowledge of what exactly EEBO 
\i \cf3 is
\i0 \cf3 .\'94 (Gadd 682)\cf4  The observation applies far beyond EEBO: although it is easiest to critique digital resources for their failures to perfectly replicate the full tactile experience of the books they simulate, or for failing to contain every possible book, those critiques are fundamentally futile. \cf5 In pursuit of other critiques, t\cf4 his chapter examines the history, textual selection, and implicit model of six databases: the ESTC, ECCO, ECCO-TCP, Project Gutenberg, Google Books, and HathiTrust. I explore how each database encodes its assumptions about what literature is, who it is for, and how it should be used. I historicize these models in the context of the institutional infrastructure behind the creation of each resource, particularly the economic factors driving development. I argue that the differences between each database\'92s literary model are best understood as the result of different strategies to navigate conflict between commercial and anti-commercial values. In parallel, I follow Charlotte Smith through each of these databases, to explore the impact of their different literary models. Very different works by Smith are available in each resource, and in very different formats. Smith\'92s most major works are not readily available, suggesting that these literary archives lag behind scholarly consensus about her importance. The chapter concludes with a discussion of new developments in Optical Character Recognition (OCR) technology, which can be used to transcribe texts from page images. \cf5 In evaluating the reliability of various textual transcriptions, alongside existing work on OCR accuracy, I argue that \'93reliability\'94 is a contextually defined trait rather than an absolute value; whether or not a text is \'93reliable,\'94 or \'93reliable enough,\'94 is determined by the intended use of the text. In that light, I describe what circumstances render each database\'92s transcriptions \'93reliable.\'94}