{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Although the ordinary volunteer companies seem associated with the middle class or even working class (cf Cookson), the volunteer cavalry is closely linked to the aristocracy (Gilks 204). Uniforms were acknowledgedly costly, and the most generous benefactors could be rewarded with more senior commissions. Ultimately, as a result, \'93Only six of the 49 peers and baronets who joined the Volunteer Cavalry in 1794 were commissioned to a rank below captain, and three of these men were\'85 commanded by another member of the aristocracy\'94 (205). The result over the next few years was \'93the domination of one arm of Britain\'92s reserve army by a small, but wealthy and influential, stratum of society\'94 (206). In many counties, the Volunteer Cavalry units would be monopolized for decades by individual families, which Gilks suggests created \'93what could be considered a private army, and \'85 a representation of that family\'92s attitudes, wealth, an status within the county.\'94 (209) Gilks describes several counties\'92 volunteer forces which adopted the colours or symbols of the relevant family\'92s crests as key parts of their uniforms.\
Gilks concludes that \'93Individuals lavished thousands of pounds on specially designed uniforms, as well as buying the latest weaponry and saddlery, but this was not simply to satisfy their own vanity,\'94 because \'93Most of the money spent by these aristocratic patrons on corps of Volunteer Cavalry was for the benefit of the men that served in them.\'94 As Cookson had already shown, however, spending money on other people\'92s uniforms can be an even larger scale display of vanity and status. Gilks ends with an odd encomium: \'93the Volunteer Cavalry would have struggled to remain in existence into the twenty-first century and to form part of the Territorial Army had it not been for the leadership and support given by the aristocracy\'94 (215).}