{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;\red206\green187\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;\cssrgb\c84700\c79200\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 The best known mega-archive is Google Books. In a scholarly context, one hesitates even to designate this as an \'93archive,\'94 particularly in the same breath as resources like ECCO: books of all kinds are scanned indiscriminately with only the bare minimum of roughly-accurate metadata collected about them. Books are sourced from libraries whose collections are being scanned in bulk, or are submitted directly by publishers or authors who are attracted by Google\'92s call to \'93Promote your books on Google\'97for free\'94 ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1222ED46-34B9-438E-969F-B2568AA0DA8E"}}{\fldrslt CITE}}).   These rapidly-scanned books are prone to unpredictable errors, including inaccurate dates, misspellings, duplicate copies, and inaccurate subject classifications (\cb2 Harper 2016; Jacs\'f3 2008; Weiss 2016) (CITE Mike Sutton and Mark D. Griffiths\cb1 ) \'97 infamously, many books have \'931899\'94 assigned as their publication date because this date was used as a placeholder for \'93no {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E14C1374-74B7-49E0-BBF7-CF5A15CA98D6"}}{\fldrslt date\'94.}} Many photographed pages still include the fingers of the employee holding open the book. Nonetheless, Google Books is frequently used to study the prevalence of various \'93n-grams\'94 (words or short phrases) over time, thanks to Google\'92s built-in tool. The tool is able to search books which are, for copyright restrictions, not available directly to readers, making it highly tempting for questions about contemporary language use. Similar in scope to Google Books but with more limited research tools is The Internet Archive. The Internet Archive, unlike Google Books, is a non-profit, but like Google Books, it carries out mass scanning of books. The Internet Archive declares that it contains 20 million books and texts, and scans 1,000 books per day in 28 locations around the world {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F8EC91FD-D8D0-4E7A-BACB-4660FF1AC2D1"}}{\fldrslt (CITE).}} Equivalent numbers are not currently published for Google Books, but in 2013 books were scanned at the rate of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://46FFA73D-5B8E-4789-A8BB-5E3C022E9AFB"}}{\fldrslt 1,000 pages per hour}}, and in 2015 more than 25 million books had been scanned. \cb3 Google Books and the Internet Archive are not \'93canonical\'94 sources of texts, but they are nonetheless part of the ecosystem of digital eighteenth century studies.\cb1 \
}