{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1080\fi-1080\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 Fry, Carrol L. 
\i Charlotte Smith
\i0 . Twayne\'92s English Authors Series, edited by Herbert Sussman, Twayne, 1996.\cf2 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'93No writer\'92s works more clearly chart the shifts in British culture and the flow of ideas in politics and art during this time of change than do those of Charlotte Turner Smith. She was one of the most popular writers of the final two decades of the 18
\fs14 \super th
\fs22 \nosupersub  century and among the most prolific. Her first three novels established the conventions that dominated the sentimental and gothic novel of the 1790s. Her early poetry, like her first novels, reflects 18
\fs14 \super th
\fs22 \nosupersub -century tastes, but her later poems place her in the forefront of the romantic movement.\'94 (2)\
\'93In her later work, Smith used her fiction and poetry as vehicles for the presentation of political ideas. Both her life and her art epitomize the \'91wrongs of woman\'92 in the 18
\fs14 \super th
\fs22 \nosupersub  century. Aware that her audience was largely female and that young women received little education, she sought to inform her readers on the important issues of her day.\'94 (2)\
\
\'93By the end of her life, Charlotte Smith has developed not only into one of the finest poets of her day and a novelist who expanded the horizons of fiction but also into a writer whose works epitomize the romantic sensibility of the early 19
\fs14 \super th
\fs22 \nosupersub  century.\'94 (3)\
\
\'93Few writers have presented themselves in their works so fully as did Charlotte Smith.\'94 (3) <- there\'92s more here}