{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93while ESTC may be based on two thousand public and private libraries worldwide, the Eighteenth Century microfilm series is based on books from only a tiny fraction of that number - almost certainly less than twenty libraries, and rarely anywhere other than the British Library, the Bodleian, Harvard, and the Hunt\'94 (Spedding 440)\cf3 \
\
\cf2 The \'93microfilm series is not a random - and therefore randomly representatve\'97 selection of items from ESTC. Texts have been selected for filming on the basis of criteria that are rarely mentioned, but which include ease of access for filming (initially, items at the British Library) and the desire to avoid duplication of texts. That is, by the desire to get the biggest bang for Gale\'92s buck.\'94 (Spedding 441)\
\
\'93There may also be commercial considerations at work. Alt not conducted a systematic search for items from the British L Case" (its collection of erotic material), it seems that little of tha the Eighteenth Century microfilm series, and the material that h has only been quite recently added.37 Consequently, much of this ing from ECCO. The reason for this may be that much Private Ca as late as 1989, not represented on ESTC,38 but it may also be be Private Case was microfilmed by Adam Matthew Publications in under the title Sex and Sexuality 1 640-1 940 . That is, the eighteent terial in the Private Case may have been withheld from the Eigh microfilm series (and consequently ECCO) to ensure the profitab Sexuality. Similar, and similarly hidden, criteria seem to affect o such as EEBO and Goo\'94 (Spedding 441)\cf3 \
\
Gale proudly declares that \'93this collection contains every significant English-language and foreign-language title printed in the United Kingdom between the years 1701 and 1800.\'94 (\'93Eighteenth Century Collections Online\'94) This claim is easily overturned with a single counterexample, such as the first edition of Charlotte Smith\'92s 
\i Elegiac Sonnets
\i0 , a significant title which is absent.\
\
\'93Full-text searching across all 26 million pages enables users to explore a vast range of books and directories, bibles, sheet music, sermons, advertisements, and works by both celebrated and lesser-known authors. Researchers will also find rare works from women writers of the eighteenth century, collections on the French Revolution, and numerous editions of the works of Shakespeare.\'94 (Gale, \'93Part I\'94)}