{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs22 \cf2 3585
\b0 \
Monograph\
 T219851\
unsigned\
The excellent old ballad of the babes in the wood : or the Norfolk gentleman's last will and testament\
Children in the wood; or the Norfolk gentleman's last will and testament\
England ; Liverpool\
1794\
Availability: may not be able to find this exact edition, but ECCO has many other eds\cf3 . Only physical copy is in Manchester\cf2 \
\
\

\b 6427
\b0 \
Monograph\
 T194212\
Jones, William, 1726-1800 [person]\
A letter to three converted Jews : lately baptized and confirmed in the Church of England. By ... William Jones\
England ; London\
F & C. Rivington\
1799\
Availability: not readily available, but some related works may be discoverable\cf3 . Only physical copy is in Durham, UK\cf2 \
\

\b 11770\

\b0 Monograph\
 T82736\
unsigned\
Satirical, humourous, and familiar pieces. Prose\
England ; Ludlow\
Champante & Whitrow, London ; George Nicholson, Ludlow. Sold by T. Knott\
1799\
Availability: ECCO link in ESTC\cf3 . Physical copies at British Library and Oxford.\cf2 \
\

\b 13646
\b0 \
Monograph\
 N38682\
Great Britain, Army, London and Westminster Light Horse Volunteers [organisation]\
Rules and regulations of the corps of Light-Horse Volunteers of London and Westminster; carefully extracted from the minutes of the general meetings\
England ; London\
1797\
Availability: not linked in ESTC, but appears to be available in ECCO as ESTC T131622 \'97 another edition in a different size\cf3 . Physical copy in the London National Archives.\cf2 \
\

\b 15284
\b0 \
Monograph\
 T161475\
Hayman, John [person]\
Consolation for the scorbutic, scrofulous, leprous, &c : and worthy also the serious perusal of the medical profession. Being an abstract from a few of those remarkable cures which illustrate Mr. Hayman's 'Treatise, explaining the nature and affinity of scorbutic diseases.' Golden-Square, London, Ist October, 1793\
England ; London\
1793\
Availability: does not appear to be available\cf3 . Only physical copy in Gottingen, Germany.\
Semi-related docs at http://estc.bl.uk/F/G5NFNY249J6CQCDR18GXQLNH9SIAFGMNIG7V3RR9DV9LR3LF4V-09870?func=full-set-set&set_number=003557&set_entry=000006&format=999\
http://estc.bl.uk/F/G5NFNY249J6CQCDR18GXQLNH9SIAFGMNIG7V3RR9DV9LR3LF4V-09872?func=full-set-set&set_number=003557&set_entry=000007&format=999\
http://estc.bl.uk/F/G5NFNY249J6CQCDR18GXQLNH9SIAFGMNIG7V3RR9DV9LR3LF4V-09864?func=full-set-set&set_number=003557&set_entry=000003&format=999\cf2 \
\

\b 15442
\b0 \
Monograph\
 T111867\
East India Company [organisation] ; Great Britain, Parliament, House of Commons [organisation]\
An account of the prime cost of all cargoes purchased in India, and shipped for Europe, in the year 1793-4; together with the commercial charges at each presidency, not added to the invoice\
Proceedings. 1795-04-17\
England ; London\
1795\
Availability: May not be directly available, but some info in minutes digitized in Hathi, https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=mdp.39015056730925&view=1up&seq=448\
\

\b 21963
\b0 \
Monograph\
 T146200\
Goldsmith, Oliver, approximately 1730-1774 [person]\
The vicar of Wakefield : a tale, by Oliver Goldsmith\
England ; London\
Ogilvy & Speare\
1792\
Availability: ESTC links to ECCO\
\

\b 37041
\b0 \
Monograph\
 T202021\
Goodall, Susannah [person]\
Extraordinary appearance of the moon! : Which was perceived to be in a violent rocking motion, for several minutes; after which was seen clearly passing round the orb, immense armies of horse and foot with bloody streamers flying, to the great terror and astonishment of thousand of spectators, who were witnesses of this wonderful alarming omen! to which is added, calculations, judicial and astrological observations, by which the true events signified thereby are foretold. Susannah Goodall, pupil to the celebrated Don Farnando Furioso. Doctor of divinity, physic, and astrology. Who foretold all the late wonderful events and bloody battles which came to pass at Toulton, Dunkirk, and various parts of France and Flanders\
England ; London\
1794\
Availability: ESTC links to ECCO\
\

\b 44564
\b0 \
Monograph\
 T113901\
Darwin, Erasmus, 1731-1802 [person]\
Zoonomia : or, the laws of organic life. ... . By Erasmus Darwin, M.D. F.R.S. Author of the Botanic Garden\
England ; London\
J. Johnson ; St. Paul's Church-Yard\
1794\
Availability: ESTC links to ECCO & Google Books\cf3 ; also held at U of T\
\cf2 \

\b 48755
\b0 \
Monograph\
 N40981\
unsigned\
The principles of modern reformers exposed\
England ; Sheffield\
J. Crome\
1792\
Availability: can\'92t find}