{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li400\fi-400\slleading240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Ezell, Margaret J M. \'93Big Books, Big Data, and Reading Literary Histories.\'94 
\i Eighteenth-Century Life
\i0  41.3 (2017): 3\'9619. Web.\cf2 \
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 \'93p.9: I agree with Laura Mandell\'92s recent analysis of the \'93Distant Reading Debates\'94 between Moretti and Katie Trumpener and between John Guillory and N. Katherine Hayles found in Critical Inquiry and Profession that much of the resistance to counting over reading elides that, in a sense, we are all already \'93digital humanists\'94 using the computer and Internet as valuable tools.\'94\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 \
\'93p.9: the suggestion implicit in databases such as EEBO and ECCO that this deluge of texts they make available is complete, constituting a form of universal coverage, leads the average users, especially the average students, to be lulled into a false sense that they now have access to \'93everything.\'94 This in turn reinforces a belief that if you don\'92t find something\'97an author, a text, and a document\'97in these massive digital repositories, it did not exist, leading once again to the past being defined by what it does not have, by absence.\'94\
\
\'93p.10: Laura Mandell offers an insightful appreciation of how the digital humanities can help to alter the historical literary landscape through its ability to specify the minute elements that create the text on a page: the coding involved in the creation of digital texts, those choices made in the software, can \'93carve up reality in a new way that has, or should have, a tremendous impact upon our discipline.\'94 11 Echoing Jerome McGann, she posits that the very act of \'93coding any cultural artifact first and foremost establishes differences among kinds of data: sound image, and differential sign systems (for example, the alphabet, numbers, mathematical functions),\'94 making us acutely aware of textual features as we attempt to create digital markup schemes for printed texts.\'94}