{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Underwood has particularly emphasized that the unique role of literary studies, as opposed to history or sociology, is that narratives provide pleasure. Of the ten items I attempted to consult, Erasmus Darwin\'92s 
\i \cf2 Zoonomia
\i0 \cf2  is on paper one of the easiest to work with: a readily available facsimile in ECCO, and a substantial body of secondary work to consult. However, the thing about a 1,400 page loosely-organized medical text is that it is entirely lacking in the pleasure of narrative. Even to lightly skim each page took a substantial investment of time and willpower. Trying to fully understand the ideas proposed \'97 and especially to reconcile them with what I came to realise was a very haphazard and largely forgotten high school education biology \'97 was a challenge. In other words, the text itself can be a barrier.\
\
A review of 
\i \cf2 The Essential Writings of Erasmus Darwin
\i0 \cf2  explicitly describes the barrier to study posed by 
\i \cf2 Zoonomia
\i0 \cf2 \'92s length: \'93Anybody who has tried to read Erasmus Darwin\'92s 
\i \cf2 Zoonomia
\i0 \cf2  or his 
\i \cf2 Botanic Garden
\i0 \cf2  will be familiar with the 
\i \cf2 longeurs
\i0 \cf2  of those extraordinary compositions and be prepare to turn with relief to the brief selections of important passages which are offered here.\'94 (Poynter 111) The value of the abridgement is that it can \'93introduce more readers to one of the more colourful characters in English scientific history than have ever been gained by the original texts.\'94 (Poynter 112)\
\
When we study 
\i \cf2 Zoonomia
\i0 \cf2 , we impose our own preferences and interests onto the text. 
\i \cf2 Zoonomia
\i0 \cf2  illuminates theories of evolution; it grounds Wordsworth\'92s ideas of the inner lives of plants (Matlak); it probably does a third thing \'97 but it does not, alas, offer the foundation of a systematic theory of fevers upon which future generations would \'93erect a solid and beautiful edifice, eminent both for its simplicity and utility, as well as for the permanency of its materials\'85 like the Newtonian philosophy, a rock amid the waste of ages!\'94 (625). All of the aspects of this work of the greatest importance to its author have, in fact, met the fate he most feared: they \'93moulder[ed], like the structures already erected, into the sand of which they were composed\'94 (625), not even meriting a footnote in the histories that discuss the peers whom he references (Cullen, Beddoes, Pringle, etc).\
This is Leah Price\'92s core argument about abridgement.}