{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red206\green187\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84700\c79200\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 Mary Robinson\'92s first literary foray was the volume 
\i Poems by Mrs. Robinson
\i0 , published by C. Parker in 1775, shortly followed by the [chapbook???] 
\i Elegiac verses to a young lady on the death of her brother; who was slain in the late engagement at Boston
\i0 . \'93Though 
\i Poems
\i0  received little critical support, and made little money, Mary Robinson continued to write\'94 (Mark Ockerbloom), but she would begin her much more successful career as an actress before this writing saw publication. Robinson\'92s theatrical debut as Juliet in December 1776 led to an increasingly acclaimed and prolific career. \'93She took on a range of roles, sometimes playing multiple parts in the same week, or even night\'94 (Mark Ockerbloom). In 1777 she published a volume of works written earlier, 
\i Captivity, A Poem: and Celadon and Lydia, A Tale
\i0 , and in 1778 wrote and starred in her own musical farce, 
\i The Lucky Escape, 
\i0 from which she published 
\i The Songs, Chorusses, etc. in The Lucky escape, a Comic Opera.
\i0  In 1780, Robinson retired from the stage. Her next published volume did not appear until 1791, but the intervening decade was not empty of literary activity. From 1784 to its publication in 1787, Robinson collaborated with Banastre Tarleton on the composition and revision of his 
\i History of the Campaigns of 1780 and 1781
\i0 . In 1788, Robinson began the writing which would make her name as an author. She contributed poems to 
\i The World
\i0  and 
\i The Oracle
\i0  under the pseudonyms \'93Laura\'94 and \'93Laura Maria\'94 which \cb2 [responded to the Della Cruscans and made her one of them]\cb1 .\
This dissertation\'92s decade of interest, 1789-99, captures Robinson\'92s most prolific period. Her 1790 [chapbook????] 
\i Ainsi va le Monde, a poem inscribed to Robert Merry
\i0 , published under the name Laura Maria, \'93Sold better than Merry's poem, requiring a second edition before the end of the year. A watershed event in Robinson's career, proving that she could successfully reinvent herself as a poet and as a political writer\'94 \cb2 (SOURCE UNCLEAR)\cb1 . The success of her Della Cruscan poetry led to the publication in 1791 of another 
\i Poems by Mrs. Robinson
\i0 , this time by
\i  
\i0 J. Bell. \'93A collection entitled Poems by Mary Robinson was published on May 12, 1791. The book was handsomely produced in a leather binding, with gold details. The subscription list of 600 people was headed by His Royal Highness, George, Prince of Wales, and included many other members of the nobility. Some people subscribed because of her writing, some because of her notoriety, and some perhaps out of pity for the former actress, now crippled and ill. Reviews were generally kind, and noted traces in her poems of a sensibility that would later be termed Romanticism.\'94 (Mark Ockerbloom). 1791 also saw the publication of 
\i The Beauties of Mrs. Robinson. Selected and Arranged from her Poetical Works 
\i0 printed by H. D. Symonds. She also produced a pamphlet that year, 
\i Impartial Reflections on the[Present] [Situation of the] Queen of France [by a Friend to Humanity]
\i0 . The next year saw the arrival of a successful novel, 
\i Vancenza, or the Dangers of Credulity
\i0 , which would reach five editions by 1794, and two elegiac [chapbooks???????]: 
\i \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Monody to the Memory of Sir Joshua Reynolds
\i0 , and 
\i An ode to the harp of the late accomplished and amiable Lousia Hanway
\i0 .\

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs22 \

\f0\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\i\fs22 Modern Manners: a poem in two cantos
\i0 , by Horace Juvenal (London: Printed for the author, 1793)\

\i Monody to the Memory of the late Queen of France
\i0 \'a0(London: T. Spilsbury, 1793), (London: J. Evans, 1793)\

\i Sight, The Cavern of Woe and Solitude
\i0 \'a0(London: Printed for T. Spilsbury, 1793), (London, Evans & Becket 1793)\

\i The Widow, or a Picture of Modern Times, A Novel in a Series of Letters
\i0 \'a0(Dublin: P. Wogan, P. Byrne, W. Jones & I. Halpen, 1794; 2 volumes, London: Hookham & Carpenter, 1794)\

\i Audley Fortescue
\i0 \'a0(London: William Lane, 1795)\

\i Angelina, a novel
\i0 , 3 vols. 12 mo (London: Hookham and Carpenter, 1796)\

\i Hubert de Sevrac, a romance of the eighteenth century.
\i0 \'a03 vols. (London: Printed for the author by Hookham and Carpenter, 1796, 2 vols. Dublin: Printed by B. Smith, 1797)\

\i Sappho and Phaon, a series of legitimate sonnets, with Thoughts on Poetical Subjects, & anecdotes of the Grecian Poetess
\i0 \'a016mo (London: Printed by S. Gosnell for the author, 1796, 1813) (London Hookham & Carpenter, 1796); facsimile edited by Terence A. Hoagwood and Rebecca Jackson (Delmar: Scholars' Facsimiles & Reprints, 1995).\

\i Sicilian Lover,
\i0 \'a0[gothic verse] tragedy 4to, (London: Printed for the author by Hookham & Carpenter, 1796).\

\i Julie St. Lawrence
\i0 \'a0(Lleipzig: Nauck, 1797); republished as\'a0
\i Julia St. Laurence, A Novel\'a0
\i0 (Leipzig: Nauck, 1812).\

\i Walsingham, or the pupil of nature, a domestic story
\i0 \'a0(London: Longman, 1797), 2\super nd\nosupersub \'a0edition 4 vols. 12mo (1805) \'96 twice translated into French (1798); edited by Gina Luria (New York: Garland, 1974).\

\i The False Friend, a Domestic Story
\i0 , 4 vols. 12mo (London: Longman and Rees, 1799).\

\i The Natural Daughter, with portraits of the Leadenhead family
\i0 , a novel. 2 vols. (London: Longman & Rees, 1799).\

\i A Letter to the Women of England on the [Injustice] Cruelties of Mental Subordination
\i0 , with Anecdotes by Anne Frances Randall (London: Longman & Rees, 1799) 8vo; first appeared as "Thoughts on the Condition of Women" 2\super nd\nosupersub \'a0edition by Anne Frances Randall (London: Printed for Longman & Rees, 1799); reprint edited by Jonathan Wordsworth (New York: International Publishing Group, 1998).\

\i Ellinda: or the abbey of St. Aubert
\i0 . Newark [1800].\

\i Lyrical Tales
\i0 \'a0(London: Longman & Rees, 1800); (Bristol, Briggs & Co, 1800) facsimile 1989.\

\i The Mistletoe, a Christmas Tale
\i0 \'a0(as Laura Maria) verse (London: Laurie & Whittle, 1800).\
Joseph Hager,\'a0
\i Picture of Palermo
\i0 , translation (London: Phillips,1800).\

\i Memoirs of the Late Mrs. Robinson, Written by Herself, with some posthumous pieces in verse
\i0 . Ed. Mary Elizabeth Robinson, her daughter, 4 vols. 12mo, (London: R. Phillips, 1801; Philadelphia: Bradford, 1802).\

\i The Wild Wreath
\i0 , ed. by M. E. Robinson (London: Richard Phillips, 1804).\

\i The Poetical Works of the Late Mrs. Robinson, including many pieces never before published
\i0 \'a0(London: Phillips, 1806) edited by Mary E. Robinson, 3 vols. 8vo in 1826; another edition appeared as\'a0
\i Poetical Works of the Late Mrs. Robinson, Including the Pieces Last Published
\i0 1 volume (London: Jones 1824). Fascimile, edited by Caroline Franklin, 1996.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}