{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93It has been difficult to consider playbills at scale because they were excluded from the catalogs that form the basis for mass digitization efforts. The absence of playbills from Eighteenth-Century Collections Online (ECCO), as well as from its pre-1700 counterpart Early English Books Online (EEBO), is a result of the decision, as reported by R. C. Alston, not to include them in the English Short Title Catalog (ESTC) on which those collections are built.\'94 (Vareschi and Burkert 600 \'97 citing R. C. Alston, \'93The Eighteenth-Century Non-Book: Observations on Printed Ephemera,\'94 in 
\i The Book and the Book Trade in Eighteenth-Century Europe
\i0 , ed. Giles Barber and Bernhard Fabian (Hamburg: Dr. Ernst Hauswedell & Co., 1981), 343\'9660, quote on 344\'9645.)\
\
\'93Alston recalls that the unusually high survival rate of playbills / actually worked against their inclusion in the ESTC during its creation in the 1970s. Often thought of as fragile in their ephemerality, playbills actually \'93seem to have been preserved more consistently than any other category of ephemera.\'9417 The compilers of the ESTC decided to catalog approximately 250,000 ephemeral materials like pam- phlets and ballads, but balked at including playbills, which would have added nearly 50,000 items from the British Library and the Victoria and Albert Museum alone.18 This decision has had serious ramifications for the study of British culture in the ensuing thirty years: ballads and pamphlets are now the basis of numerous serious studies by scholars in literature and history, while playbills are not.\'94 (Vareschi and Burkert 600-601)\
\'93Alston\'92s account reminds us that 
\b playbills are infrequently studied today because they were 
\i made
\i0  less accessible and less institutionally supported than other kinds of items
\b0 . While they once shared a visual field with the other cheaply printed materials of early modern London, such as libels and advertisements,20 today they are nearly invisible to scholars who can access those other cheap prints with the click of a button.\'94 (Vareschi and Burkert 600-601)}