{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 This dissertation understands archives, bibliographies, anthologies, and corpora to all be, variously, 
\i models
\i0  of an imagined object of study. In the language of social science, these models might be described as \'91samples,\'92 which are intended to permit discoveries about an underlying \'91population\'92 by being \'91representative\'92 of that population\'92s features. Only the language and not the methods of social science need to be imported here, since it has long been ordinary practice in literary studies to select and examine representative texts for insights about larger {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://15F5F4D7-F7E8-4B16-8B51-AF4E02B99403"}}{\fldrslt movements}}. A work like Ann Tracy\'92s bibliography 
\i The Gothic Novel 1790-1830
\i0 , for example, clearly names the population of works which are of interest to her: all Gothic novels published between 1790 and 1830.\cf2  \cb3 She tentatively defines her principles of selection as _____. \cf0 \cb1 But in providing detailed information on 208 texts \'97 mostly Gothic, mostly novels, mostly between 1790 and 1830 \'97 Tracy obviously does not claim to have presented all that might belong within this population. Instead, her book operates as a model of the underlying population, which can be queried for further insight into \'91the Gothic novel, 1790-1830\'92 only so long as one keeps the limits of the model in mind. Indeed, by presenting plot summaries and bibliographic data, rather than reproducing the novels in full, Tracy provides a model of a model. Importantly, a model is a tool for thinking, and not necessarily a truth\cf2  \cf0 claim in itself: creating a model is a way of saying, \'91it might be helpful to think of X as Y,\'92 not an assertion that X is equivalent to Y. Willard {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CCF03F1E-2441-4838-8310-8A197DA94FE0"}}{\fldrslt McCarty}} articulates this important feature of models by stressing that a model\'92s value is determined not by its exact correspondence with the object it models \'97 if it were possible to fully examine the underlying object, then no model would be necessary \'97 but by the 
\i fruitfulness
\i0  of its simplifications. Even a deeply incorrect model can be fruitful if its divergence from observed phenomena rules out an incorrect theory. As I examine the many existing models of \'91English literature, 1789-1799,\'92 and create several more of my own, I articulate the underlying assumptions of each model, and assess the fruitfulness of the results.}