{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 There are two ways to explain the disappearance of unsigned authors from smaller corpora. [The first explanation is that unsigned authors have, essentially, faced discrimination due to their status as unsigned: out of a fixed pool of unsigned works, fewer were chosen for further scholarly dissemination than from the pool of signed works.] [The second explanation is that the further dissemination of a work, or scholarly investment in a work, reduces the likelihood that it will 
\i remain
\i0  unsigned in the database.] For an author to appear as \'93unsigned\'94 here, they need not only be absent from the title page, but they also need to have avoided a later scholarly attribution of authorship. Names are placed into the relevant database fields wherever possible, supplying new information that cannot be found on the title page and may have been entirely unavailable to eighteenth century readers. Ann Radcliffe\'92s first novel, for example, was published unsigned, and the next several editions identified her as the \'93authoress\'94 of the previous works, and only with the third edition of 
\i The Romance of the Forest
\i0  did the name \'93Ann Radcliffe\'94 appear on the book. All of the earlier editions, however, are consistently linked to Ann Radcliffe as the author in the internal database, and in the data I was able to access. There is obvious practical use in disseminating author identifications \'97 indeed, there is very little point in determining the authors of pseudonymous works if this information is not fully incorporated into the scholarly record. But the particular implementation also occludes how eighteenth century readers actually encountered author information. An identified name overwrites the information recorded on the title page.}