{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 A potential coda or afterword could build on the work of Robert Miles and others to describe the role of the Gothic as a trans-generic mode which can appear across all print production (\cf2 a\cf0 ssuming that turns out to be true, of course.) \cf2 Some of my earlier\cf0  work suggests that Gothic modes of writing, unlike most literary content, can be \'93spotted\'94 computationally. Since the Gothic operates by means of distinctive tropes and sensory appeals, the Gothic parts of a history and the Gothic parts of a picaresque can be distinguished from the non-Gothic parts of each by computational methods that could not distinguish a history from a picaresque. (Importantly, stylometric methods are not able to distinguish a Gothic parody from a \'93real\'94 Gothic; as I theorize and interpret my findings, then, I would take up Horner \cf2 and\cf0  Zlosnik\'92s work on Gothic humour to discuss the problem of parody in taxonomy.) This final section could use a stylometric approach to identify and then search for \'93Gothic vocabularies\'94 in full texts, \cf2 computationally, in order \cf0 to quantify the reach of the Gothic across my corpora. How many works can be identified as having Gothic influences? What kinds of literary productions are most resistant to the Gothic? Does the Gothic appear differently in mainstream vs radical presses? This afterword would sketch out a preliminary map of the Gothic in the print world of the 1790s. This closing section would thus cite and build upon my prior work with the Gothic, in the context of the 1790s as a period when the penetration of Gothic modes into mainstream print had particularly complex political stakes.}