{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 All written by Mary Mark Ockerbloom\
\
\'93Her later poetical works included a second volume of Poems (1794); a sonnet sequence, Sappho and Phaeon (1796); and finally Lyrical Tales (1800). Mary Robinson frequently contributed poetry to the Morning Post, and eventually edited their poetry page. This increased her contact with the other poets and their work.\'94 (WWO)\
\'93More lucrative than Mary Robinson's poetry, was her prose. The money helped to support herself, her mother and daughter, and often Banastre Tarleton. Novels such as Vancenza (1792), The Widow (1794), Angelina (1796), and Walsingham (1797) went through multiple editions and were often translated into French and German. They owed part of their popularity to their suspected autobiographical elements. Even when her characters were placed in scenes of gothic horror, their views could be related to the experiences of their author.\'94 (Mark Ockerbloom)\
\'93In both The False Friend (1799) and The Natural Daughter (1799) she responded to the defection of Banastre Tarleton. The death of his mother in 1797 catalyzed him to end his 15-year relationship with Mary.\'94 (Mark Ockerbloom)\
\'93She expressed her disillusionment with marriage in a work of social criticism, entitled A Letter to the Women of England, on the Injustice of Mental Subordination (1799). First published under the name of Anne Frances Randall, it reflected the thinking of her friends Mary Wollstonecraft and William Godwin. Mary argued for the choice of a wife to leave her husband, as she had done years before.\'94 (Mark Ockerbloom)\
\'93Mary Robinson also began to write her autobiography. However, her health became increasingly poor, and she died on December 26, 1800, leaving it unfinished. Her daughter Maria Elizabeth edited and published her memoirs (Memoirs of the Late Mrs. Robinson, Written by Herself, With Some Posthumous Pieces, 1801) and a collected edition of her Poetical Works (1806).\'94 (Mark Ockerbloom)\
\
\
\'93Mary Robinson appeared in her most famous (and infamous) role at age 21, a four-year veteran of the stage. Her success as Perdita in A Winter's Tale led to a royal request for a command performance. On December 3, 1779, the 17-year-old Prince of Wales (later King George IV) determined to make her his mistress. \'85 Although the affair lasted less than a year, 'the Perdita' was notorious from then on; her gowns, her carriages, and her alliances became a constant source of discussion and speculation in the newspapers.\'94 (WWO)\
\'93The Prince's defection left Mary Robinson in a difficult position. Both the Robinsons were living on borrowed money, deeply in debt. She had ruined her reputation and given up a promising career as an actress, and received only promises in return. The Prince might have been expected to make some provision for his ex-mistress, but he did not. Her reputation already destroyed, Mary Robinson seems to have cared little about causing further scandal. She demanded \'a325,000 for the return of the prince's letters. She apparently settled for \'a35,000, paid by George III "to get my son out of this shameful scrape." It was enough to stave off her creditors. In 1782, Mary obtained a further \'a3500 annuity for herself, and a \'a3200 annuity during the life of Maria Elizabeth, in return for the surrender of the Prince's bond.\
Lord Malden, the Prince's original emissary, was now Mary's most frequent companion, and her lover. Rumour also associated her with Charles James Fox, who negotiated the annuity settlement for her. So long as the men she associated with were attractive and attentive, she seemed willing to befriend them. (Thomas Robinson, though still alive, was uninvolved in her later life.)\'94 (WWO)\
\'93One night Lord Malden, Mary's 'protector', bet 1000 guineas that Mary would be true to him if Banastre Tarleton tried to seduce her. Several weeks later, Tarleton won both Mary's affections and the bet. Mary, when she learned what they had done, was furious with both men. Lord Malden, feeling himself betrayed when he had believed in her, rejected her. Tarleton seemed to care little for what happened. But after an accident in her phaeton, it was Banastre Tarleton who hurried to Mary's side - and she forgave him. Their seemingly unlikely relationship was to continue for the next 15 years.\'94 (WWO)\
\'93Tarleton's family viewed both extensive gambling and the notorious Perdita as dangers attendant upon London society. They offered to pay Banastre's most pressing debts of honour (more than they could readily afford) on the condition that he leave for the Continent - alone. Faced with social ruin otherwise, Tarleton set out for France on July 24, 1783. Mary desperately borrowed money for his debts, in hopes that he would stay in England, and set out in a post-chaise for Dover to intercept him. She was pregnant, and the rough travel caused a miscarriage. Mary suffered further injuries as a result of the incompetence of the midwife who attended her. Her legs became partially paralyzed, and she was affected by increasing paralysis and acutely painful rheumatism for the rest of her life.\'94\
\'93The possibility of an election in the spring of 1784, brought Tarleton back to England to campaign in Liverpool. He moved in with Mary Robinson, and they plunged into the excitement of the campaign. However, Tarleton was not elected, and did not receive an appointment from those who were elected to power. Creditors began to gather once again: Mary's possessions were seized and auctioned off. She saved only the diamond-studded portrait of the Prince of Wales. When the Duc de Lauzun offered his hospitality in the fall of 1784, Ban and Mary quietly left for France.\'94 (WWO)\
\'93Tarleton and Robinson spent the next few years living intermittently in France and in Germany. They worked together composing and revising Tarleton's History of the Campaigns of 1780 and 1781 (1787). Mary verified and augmented Banastre's memories of the campaigns, using letters, dispatches, and newspaper accounts. In 1787, Tarleton returned to London for the book's publication. It gained him some prestige, but little income. Fortunes were changing hands in gambling hells, so he and a partner opened a faro-bank in hopes of making theirs. Mary continued to write poetry, and was reportedly working on an opera. By the fall of 1787, her health had improved enough that she considered returning to England. Ban Tarleton went to Aix-la-Chapelle to meet her, and in 1788, Mary Robinson returned to England, settling at 42 Clarges Street. Tarleton lived just down the street, at number 30.\'94 (WWO)\
Though they experienced several breakups and reconciliations, which prompted Mary Robinson to write poems such as "Lines to Him Who Will Understand Them.", and the sonnet sequence Sappho and Phaeon , Mary Robinson's relationship with Tarleton continued until 1798. During that time, Banastre Tarleton pursued his interests in politics. He became a member of Parliament, and was promoted to Colonel and later General. During the same time, Mary Robinson wrote prolifically. Her poetry and fiction achieved considerable acclaim. (Her attempts at writing for the theatre were less successful.)}