{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 The problem of textual selection\'97 the paired difficulty and importance of deciding which few books one will actually read\'97 is an urgently meaningful problem in the \'93real world,\'94 outside the realms of academia. A common solution is one which will likely alarm and distress most scholars who have dedicated themselves to thinking through canonical selection, or even the construction of a syllabus: a solution which could perhaps be called \'91radical impatience.\'92 Consider, for example, the following advice in a blog post, \'93100 Ways to Live Better,\'94 item number 6, the first entry in the category \'93Mind\'94:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\li720\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 There are more great podcasts than you\'92ll ever have the time to listen to. If it sucks after 10 minutes, skip half an hour ahead. Still boring? Delete and move on. Obviously, do the same for books.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 There is much to find distressing here. The operant metric that another\'92s ideas \'93suck\'94 if they are \'93boring\'94 in the first ten or thirty minutes. The fact that \'93obviously\'94 the same metrics apply for books as for podcasts. Indeed, even the fact that podcasts so strongly come 
\i \cf2 before
\i0 \cf2  books\cf3  as the default way to encounter new ideas\cf2 . Each word in the first sentence is itself a link to a specific podcast recommended by the writer, but \'93books\'94 are a monolith and a footnote.\
\
Later we see another metric for textual selection:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\li720\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Should you watch that movie / play that game / read that book? Use the ratio:\
([# who rated it 5/5] + [# who rated it 1/5]) / [# who rated it 3/5].\
This doesn\'92t apply to everything, but it applies to many things, including media. There are too many options out there to waste time on mediocrity, and everything great will be divisive.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 Paired with the first piece of advice, this would suggest a process of seeking out divisive and controversial works, determining within ten minutes whether one is strongly in sympathy or strongly opposed, and continuing only with works which evoke strong sympathy.\
Of the seven mentions of the word \'93book,\'94 two are in fact the word \'93Facebook.\'94 Two are the pieces of advice quoted above. Two are suggestions to find \'93good audiobooks, and/or a dog\'94 to form a habit of going on walks, or \'93a good app or guidebook\'94 to practice meditation. And the last is the advice that \'93If you\'92ve been waiting for months for someone to create an event and invite you, whether it\'92s a book discussion or a BDSM orgy, just throw one yourself,\'94 in which \'93a book discussion\'94 functions rhetorically as an extreme example of an unusual and improbable kind of social event, paired against its assumed opposite extreme.}