{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 My first source of ECCO metadata consisted of MARC records, kindly provided by University of Toronto libraries (my thanks to Leslie Barnes!). I requested information for all works published 1789-99 in the UK (so, including Ireland and Scotland, but excluding America.)\
\cf0 My ECCO metadata presented particular challenges. I had access to MARC records, which stands for MAchine Readable Catalogue. At several points, I read this data with my feeble non-machine eyes in order to guide my data processing. Using MarcEdit, I converted these MARC records to csv files which could, \cf2 i\cf0 n OpenRefine, be read, manipulated, and merged like my other corpora. Since I was not able to simply convert \'93all the MARC headings that exist\'94 using MarcEdit, I used all numbers 1 to 999 and [will] delete empty columns.\
ECCO encodes much of its data in \'93unassigned\'94 columns, rather than the standardized LOC categories.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.itsmarc.com/crs/mergedprojects/helpauth/helpauth/tag_list.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://www.itsmarc.com/crs/mergedprojects/helpauth/helpauth/tag_list.htm}}\
Library of Congress MARC info\cf2 \
\
\
\
I also have ECCO metadata records, now, from the Gale Digital Scholars Lab. Due to their restrictions on how much data may be downloaded at once, I have created 11 files, each one holding the metadata for all of ECCO\'92s works in each year. ECCO-1789.csv, for example, is based on the following search: \'93LIMITS: Archive (Eighteenth Century Collections Online) And Publication Date (1789 - 1789).\'94 These files initially contain works from a wide range of publication locations, not just England, since the Digital Scholars Lab does not provide any way to filter items by publication location.}