{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Mary Robinson\'92s \'93notorious public behaviour seems to have ensured that she would not get anything like a fair hearing as 
\i an artist
\i0  among the conventional critics of the time. Her case is a painful reminder of the pervasive power of a self-appointed coterie of predominantly male critics who considered themselves custodians of national public morality.\'94 (Behrendt 192) \'93
\b unlike Smith she was widely regarded as the instigator rather than the victim of her misfortunes
\b0 \'94 (Behrendt\cf3  \cf2 192)\cf3  \cf2 Robinson and Smith both received posthumous attention in 1806-8. Robinson\'92s reception is negative, dismissing her claims to sympathy and sensibility, and critiquing her immoral personal choices (Behrendt\cf3  \cf2 190). \
\'93even though\'85 Robinson\'92s love poems were \'91immensely popular\'92 during her lifetime [cite: J Labbe \'93Selling One\'92s Sorrows\'94 p 70)], her novels sold well, and her 
\i Lyrical Tales
\i0  of 1800 seemed poised to rival the 
\i Lyrical Ballads
\i0 \'94 (Behrendt\cf3  \cf2 192)\cf3 \
\'93The tone of the two reviews [of Smith and Robinson] could not be more different, nor could the moral, political, and ideological judgments that inform them. And yet both authors did in fact suffer physically, emotionally, and certainly economically; both expressed in their works their indignation over the injustice of it all, especially as women trapped in a system which denied them personal and property rights; both suffered reversals in public reputation (and consequently in fortune, or income) when they expressed their political and social dissent; both embodied their personal suffering in their poetry\'92s (and their prose\'92s) personae; both died relatively young; both largely disappeared from the landscape of Romantic-era British literary history in the following century and a half; and both have been recovered and favourably assessed in recent decades.\'94 (Behrendt 191)\
\
\cf4 \'93Susan Luther, Stuart Curran, Judith Pascoe, Eleanor Ty and  Sharon  Setzer  in  the  mid-1990s  launched  an  intense  period  of  scholarly  work  on  Robinson.  Highlighting  Robinson\'92s  writing  \'93as  a  kind  of  cultural  barometer  of  aesthetic  changes  [that]  initiate[s]  or  engage[s]  in  her  society\'92s  every  literary  preoccupation\'94  (20),  Pascoe\'92s  groundbreaking  Romantic Theatricality  (1997),  in  particular,  situated  Robinson\'92s  pseudonymous  theatrical  writing  at  the  center  of  late  eighteenth-century  literary  culture. 
\b Since then, Robinson\'92s performativity has been the dominant lens through which her writing and her career have been interpreted.
\b0  According to Pascoe, Robinson enacted in her writing an ever-shifting public identity\cf3  \'85\cf4  The theater provided the \'93central vehicle\'94 for her multiple transformations beyond the stage\cf3  \'85\cf4   (Gamer  and T. Robinson 220). These other areas include her 
\b interaction with other Romantic poets, the other primary lens for interpreting Robinson\'92s writing
\b0 , in particular her relations with Coleridge and the Della Cruscans, to a lesser extent Wordsworth and, more recently, Southey and Smith.\cf3  \cf4 I seek to combine these two approaches, taking a cue from Daniel Robinson\'92s\cf3  
\i \cf4 The  Poetry  of  Mary  Robinson:  Form  and  Fame
\i0   (2011),  which  argues  for  Robinson\'92s obsession with \'93social interaction and literary intertextuality ... [as a means] to achieve professional legitimacy, recognition and fame\'94 (8) as an author.\cf3 \'94 (Cross 6)\
\'93The  publication  of  the  eight-volume  complete  
\i Works  by  Mary  Robinson
\i0   by  Pickering  and  Chatto  (2009\'962010),  under  the  direction  of  William  Brewer,  marked  Robinson\'92s  official  reentrance  into  the  literary  canon.\'94 (Cross 12)}