{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 In 2000, Distributed Proofreaders was founded. Also \'93In 2000, a non-profit corporation, the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, Inc. was chartered in Mississippi, United States to handle the project's legal needs. Donations to it are tax-deductible. Long-time Project Gutenberg volunteer Gregory Newby became the foundation's first CEO.\'94 (Wikipedia)\cf3 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \'93A fast growth thanks to Distributed Proofreaders, a website launched in October 2000 by Charles Franks to share the proofreading of books between many volunteers. Volunteers choose one of the books listed on the site and proofread a given page. They don't have any quota to fulfill, but it is recommended they do a page per day if possible. It doesn't seem much, but with hundreds of volunteers it really adds up.\'94 (Lebert)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'93In 2002 Distributed Proofreaders became part of Project Gutenberg.\'94 (Hosch) \'93By 2009 roughly half of all Project Gutenberg books had been handled by using Distributed Proofreaders.\'94 (Hosch)\
\'93As of 2018, the 36,000+ DP-contributed books comprised almost two-thirds of the nearly 60,000 books in Project Gutenberg.\'94 (Wikipedia)\cf3 \
\
\cf2 At some point Carnegie Mellon University agreed to administer the project\'92s finances.\
It\'92s currently hosted by ibiblio at UNC Chapel Hill.\cf3 \
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \'94The number of electronic books rose from 1,000 (in August 1997) to 5,000 (in April 2002), 10,000 (in October 2003), 15,000 (in January 2005), 20,000 (in December 2006) and 25,000 (in April 2008). \'85 The steady growth went on, with an average of 8 books per month in 1994, 16 books per month in 1995, and 32 books per month in 1996.\'94 (Lebert)\cf2  \cf4 \'93If 32 years were necessary to digitize the first 10,000 books, between July 1971 and October 2003, 3 years and 2 months were necessary to digitize the following 10,000 books, between October 2003 and December 2006.\'94 (Lebert)\cf2  \'93In the first 11 weeks of 2004, Project Gutenberg added 313 new e-books. It took from 1971 to 1997 to produce the first 313 e-books\'97that's 11 weeks compared to about 26 years.\'94 (Hane)\cf3 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'93In 2004 Project Gutenberg Europe and Distributed Proofreaders Europe were formed to facilitate the process of adding more non-English works.\'94 (Hosch)\
The books doubled again between 2006 and 2011, from 20,000 (2006) to 40,000 (2011). (Hosch)\
The current collection is 60,000 ebooks. This falls short of Hart\'92s bombastic declaration in 2004 that \'93We want to grow the collection to 1 million free e-books and distribute them to 1 billion people for a total of 1 quadrillion e-books to be given away by the end of the year 2015.\'94 (Hane)\cf3 \
\
\cf2 Wikipedia: \'94In August 2003, Project Gutenberg created a CD containing approximately 600 of the "best" e-books from the collection. The CD is available for download as an ISO image. When users are unable to download the CD, they can request to have a copy sent to them, free of charge.\cf3 \
\cf2 \'93PG has been giving away CDs and DVDs; a volunteer mails them out for free on request.\'94 (Hane)\
In December 2003, a DVD was created containing nearly 10,000 items. At the time, this represented almost the entire collection. In early 2004, the DVD also became available by mail.\
In July 2007, a new edition of the DVD was released containing over 17,000 books, and in April 2010, a dual-layer DVD was released, containing nearly 30,000 items.\
The majority of the DVDs, and all of the CDs mailed by the project, were recorded on recordable media by volunteers. However, the new dual layer DVDs were manufactured, as it proved more economical than having volunteers burn them. As of October 2010, the project has mailed approximately 40,000 discs.}