{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Knox argues, first, that there was an abundance of prophetic texts available to readers in the 1790s, and, second that for their readers, \'93during this epoch it became increasingly difficult to exclude the \'91lunatick visionaries\'92 from conceptions of plausibility\'94 (430). Knox emphasizes comets as phenomena undergoing simultaneous and co-implicated (rather than strictly parallel) investigation for meaning. For example, \'93by helping them to chart the paths of comets in the eighteenth century, telescopes enabled astronomers to claim that, as predictable, periodic objects, comets could signify nothing. Nevertheless, in George Ill's England, comets remained symbols of God's fury\'85 Even the eminently reasonable 
\i Gentleman's magazine
\i0  communicated accounts of cometary effects on the weather, the taste of venison, and the number of twins birthed in the metropolis\'94 (432).\
\
A striking generalization that Piper would find notable: \'93Late-Georgian London was filled with signs. Each symbol, emblem, gesture, hieroglyph, flag, poem, prophecy, song, token and picture wanted interpretation.\'94 (427)\
\'93Looking at moments of significant political crisis and crises in signifying shows how quickly the hard work that made representations seem natural can be nullified. While prophets used their visions to overturn the prevailing conception of order, other crucial signs of order were destabilized and "denaturalized" by London's philosophic radicals. \'85 The furore over these signs reflected two other problems which these late Georgians confronted. The first problem revolved around attempts to distinguish between the plausible and the absurd, while the second problem that occupied the minds of Londoners in the 1790s concerned the delineation of the rational public.\'94 (428)\
\
Hershel published through the 80s and 90s about comets \'97 but also thought people lived on the moon\
Prominent examples of Brothers, whose millenarian prophecies around 1795 gathered momentum and censure. Arrested for imagining the king\'92s death (438)\
\
\'93Exploiting the savvy of publishers like George Riebau of the Strand, countless pamphleteers embarked under the standard of "Prince Richard". William Sales's Discourse on prophets, Samuel Whitchurch's Another witness!, John Willison's A prophecy of the French Revolution, and the downfall of Anti- christ, James Bicheno's Signs ofthe times, or dark prophecies ofScripture illustrated, Francis Offley 's Richard Brothers, neither madman nor imposter and Richard "Citizen" Lee's memorable Happy reign ofGeorge the last all promised authorized visions of the future." In London bookshops these vaticinations could be found next to Joseph Priestley's Present state o f Europe compared with antient prophesies, The celestial telegraph, The conjuror's magazine, Every lady's ownfortune- teller and Moore's Vox stellarum. In 1795 Samuel Taylor Coleridge penned his apocalyptic Religious musings and William Blake finished engraving Europe: A prophesy, in which he imagined Newton to "blow the trump of the last Doorn\'94\'94 (438)\
\
\'93In this paper I have argued also that the scientific symbols of this period cannot be isolated from contemporaneous disputes concerning other signs. It was difficult for Londoners to discriminate between the signs that surrounded them. This is in part due to the physical proximity where these signs were produced, exchanged and discussed - in the Strand, in the City and nestled around St Paul's. Those who discussed them realized that it was their remarkable interaction that gave them their complete meaning.\'94 (451)}