{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red204\green102\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;
\red102\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;
\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Chapter four introduces my second major experiment, a mapping of the social world of print production 1789-99. As in chapter two, it will be a substantial technical and research project simply to recover contemporary printing practices\cf0 ; this time, rather than asking what was printed, I will ask who it was printed by. A great deal of scholarly work already exists on printing circles, coterie publishing, and individual publishing houses.\cf2  \cf3 [List some of it here! Include a brief lit review; address the major studies and their arguments] \cf0 My project will consult this work to extract and encode \cf4 connections\cf0  between authors, printers, and publishers (but not patrons, readers, or other persons not immediately involved in the production of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F0796552-C91E-45F4-8F4D-7907C9F58E19"}}{\fldrslt texts)}} in order to explicitly synthesize the implicit social networks underlying 1790s print production. I will begin my research for this chapter by encoding only a few existing studies, in order to evaluate the feasibility of my method at scale. It is possible that, rather than directly consulting the more richly historically-informed work of other scholars, I will instead fall back on inferring networks from the author and publisher metadata included with the corpora examined in chapters two and three.\cf3  The resulting chapter will explain my methodology and its assumptions, and will \cf5 provide\cf3  a rich description of my resulting network graph. The graph I create may show one large interconnected network, or several separate networks of varying sizes; these networks may show highly distinct clusters, or evenly interconnected webs. \cf5 Drawing on mathematical graph theory, t\cf3 he chapter will explain the implications of whichever shape the network ultimately displays\cf5 .\cf3  \cf5 It will also\cf3  present an overview of the people I identify as the \'93major players\'94 in the publishing world of the 1790s\cf4 , both mathematically (looking for nodes with high eigenvector centrality, etc) and [literarily]\cf3 .}