{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl520\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The preceding chapters have been concerned with textual access and textual selection in part because these practices have direct methodological implications. Digital projects typically describe very explicitly what texts have been sampled, how, and why, though often it is sufficient to defer authority for a sample only one or two degrees. [Riddell et al follow a print bibliography, as does Underwood.]\'a0 \'93it would be a lot of work for researchers to construct new samples completely from scratch for every project. So, in practice, digital libraries provide an important resource, allowing researchers to construct different samples by subdividing a larger collection. In pursuing work of this kind, we don\'92t necessarily have to decide whether libraries are correctly balanced. We can rebalance our samples as needed. But we do have to spend some time thinking about the outer limits of the collection.\'94 (Underwood 178)
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Sampling is also core to non-digital literary research, though it is rare that a critic will disclose how or why they have devoted their attention to a particular subset of texts. Indeed, much of Piper\'92s criticism boils down to a complaint that literary scholars rarely disclose their sampling methods. [Can I make a link to the social pressure not to admit to reading gaps? Eg saying one is \'93re-reading\'94 something being read for the first time; Pierre Bayard\'92s 
\i How To Talk About Books You Haven\'92t Read
\i0 ] The uncharitable interpretation of Piper\'92s critique is the implication that literary critics are charlatans, who might take anything they have to hand, and spin an exciting story from those materials. In what follows, I have taken up the charlatan\'92s method, to test the limits of literary-criticism-as-storytelling.}