{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 It opens incredibly belligerently: \'93YOU who are of the lowest class of beings who can be called MEN; to you I address myself; to you who are the scum of the earth, and unworthy the notice of gentlemen.\'94 But this is immediately shown to be satire in the second sentence, which describes some of the \'91crimes\'92 of the \'91Modern Reformers\'92: \'93many of you have had the audacity to read books of your own choosing, without being capable of judging which were fit, and which unfit for your perusal\'94.\
The chief \'91objection\'92 is that working class people of a range of occupations have read Tom Paine. It scoffs at the moral authority of priests and magistrates. Very sarcastic satire: \'93The clergy you know to be all good and pious men; they never get drunk, and curse and swear as you do\'85 they never squander away their time in hunting, whoring, and gaming\'94.\
The satire suggests an aura of terror and counterrevolutionary action: \'93You know every Justice of the peace in the country is ready to receive information against You,\'94 with many painful forms of execution listed as \'91appropriate\'92 punishments for the crime of reading Paine & presuming to have rights.\
It then suggests that the main takeaway from Paine is that all men have rights, and especially the right to know how their taxes are spent. Satirically: \'93you have no rights, but the rights of horses and beasts of burthen. The horse or the ass labours, and his master feeds him with such food as he thinks fit; so you labour for the rich, and are fed by them, and ought to be content with what they please to give you.\'94 The emphasis is on the expenditure of government money: \'93This TOM PAINE tells you of the expences of government, that the king has a million a Year; and there are many rascals in the country \'85 who grudge the poor king his salary that he labours so hard for, and would dock him to two hundred thousand pounds a Year\'94 \'97 doing the math per day: \'93What, take off 2000l per day from his wages and allow him but 600l per day! Horrid miscreants! who would starve their king!\'94\
The next target are appointed members of court, who are satirically termed \'93useful\'94 for the support they give the king. The paper takes a potentially threatening turn when it imagines the lack of a king. Without the \'93useful\'94 supporters being paid their salaries, \'93a king would be no more than a cypher, he would never have his own way in any thing, all the men in power would be for ever contradicting him, and prating about the good of the nation, and the comfort and happiness of the poor, instead of the dignity of the crown; and then what would become of the king? We were as good have no king.\'97\'97this TOM PAINE tells you that one man has 8000l. another 10,000l. another 6000l. Another 5000l. and so on; but he don\'92t tell you how useful these men are\'94 \'97 here I find the long dash very interesting and suggestive, as well as the change to \'91incorrect\'92 language.\
The examples of useless attendants include the groom of the stool and the Lord of the Bed-chamber, roles whose existence infantilize the king and make the whole court seem ridiculous.\
Finally it \'93proves\'94 that high taxes are beneficial to the poor by asking them to imagine, in detail, what it would be like if they didn\'92t have to pay any of a long list of taxes, and could get there everything for a third the cost; the anemic result is that you would be three times ad drunk from buying three times as much alcohol, so that \'93your families would be starved and Your master\'92s work would not be done.\'94\
It closes with another comparison of the working poor to horses: \'93It is your province to labour and live hard, and be thankful to the King, and WE Gentlemen, that you are not obliged to run in our carriages, and eat grains, as the poor do, in some countries.\'94}