{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 This chapter will describe the primary object of study of this dissertation, namely, contemporary digital databases with substantial holdings of 1790s literature. These databases require substantial description, preliminary to analysis, since they have conventionally been treated as tools for accessing objects of study, rather than objects of study in themselves. \cf3 Figure <$n:fig:\cf2 databases-venn\cf3 >\cf2  shows a venn diagram of the approximate relative scale, and overlap in holdings, of the eight databases in three ecosystems which I will explore. In blue is the purely academic ecosystem: \cf4 the \cf2 English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC), Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO), and the ECCO Text Creation Partnership (ECCO-TCP). In pink is the commercial Google-backed ecosystem: Google Books, Google Ngrams, and HathiTrust. And in green is \cf4 a\cf2  crowdsourced ecosystem: Project Gutenberg. The\cf4  division of databases into the\cf2 se ecosystems represent\cf4 s\cf2  my own analysis of the institutional processes and selection principles which have shaped \cf4 them\cf2 . Databases within a shared ecosystem may or may not be interoperable, but they made their initial textual selections with a similar logic, and make make their holdings available for a similar imagined audience. An immediate difference between them, for example, is that the commercial ecosystem treats textual holdings like a trade secret; my discussion of Google Books and Google Ngrams will be primarily a discussion of barriers and lacunae. Google Books and Google Ngrams are of crucial importance, however, for understanding HathiTrust, whose presence in my diagram of the commercial ecosystem runs counter to its current highly academic reputation. This chapter will begin with a discussion of the theoretical stakes involved in taking a system of databases as one\'92s object of study. To illustrate these states, I will examine \cf4 the current scope and data structure of each database, and the \cf2 holdings of works by Charlotte Smith \cf4 that each contains\cf2 . Then I will present a chronological history of these nine databases. The chapter concludes by returning to this map of database ecosystems, to examine the role of commercial forces in defining each of the three clusters. As I will show, these resources are different in their core assumptions \'97 so different it can even be difficult to bring them into simple comparison with each other \'97 as a result of three different strategies of response to the economic forces of the emerging internet.}