{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
First experiment: identify gender make-up of databases.
\b0  (Write a program in R)\
\cf2 \'93\cf3 Identifying\cf2  \cf3 Authorial Gender \cf2 in Eighteenth\cf3  \cf2 Century \cf3 Databases\cf2 .\'94 University of Toronto Graduate English Conference. Toronto, ON, April 24.\cf3 \
\
Please submit abstracts of 250-300 words and a brief bio of 50 words to uoftenglishconference2020@gmail.com.\
\
Bio: Lawrence Evalyn is a Ph.D. Candidate in English at the University of Toronto, specializing in computational approaches to eighteenth century literature.\
\
Abstract: This paper will examine how contemporary digital databases of eighteenth century literature have remediated the cultural production of the 1790s through choices of which texts to make digitally accessible. Despite the importance of corpus-building (that is, the accumulation of a large body of text files for analysis) to the interpretation of \'93distant reading\'94 research, it is often extremely difficult to know what is in a corpus. These hidden choices are particularly problematic when historical selection factors might have led to the creation of databases which re-create social inequalities. My research studies literature of the 1790s, a time when literary canons were being reinvented in England, to examine processes of selection in the eighteenth century and today. For the decade 1789-99, the English Short Title Catalogue provides basic bibliographic data for nearly 52,000 titles, but the Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation Partnership corpus of XML-encoded full texts \'97 the source for most distant reading research on eighteenth century literature \'97 includes fewer than 500 titles. This difference raises the question: why were the other 51,500 titles not considered worth the investment of scholarly effort? And with particular urgency: do the most invested-in resources underrepresent women? I have written a program which infers a gender for the named authors of the works recorded in three major eighteenth century databases. (As my paper will discuss, inferring a gender from a name would not be tenable for a modern literary corpus, but is not inappropriate for the strong emphasis on binary gender in eighteenth century title pages.) By comparing the gender representation within different digital resources, I present a case study in recognizing the inequalities which may underly apparently neutral research resources.}