{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 In chapter four, having spent the previous two chapters examining my digital corpora as corpora, I finally use them to draw conclusions about the eighteenth century itself. Chapter four examines random samples from each corpus. Random sampling, which Steven Zwicker (Zwicker) and Leo Lahti, Niko Ilom\'e4ki, and Mikko Tolonen (Lahti et al.) have applied successfully to the English Short Title Catalogue\'92s holdings, makes it feasible to apply a greater level of human scrutiny to a large body of texts. For each corpus, I select a small enough number of titles that it is feasible to examine each title individually, and manually research its bibliographic details and contents. Comparing my manual assessments to the databases\'92s defaults allows me to calculate a probable error rate for each kind of information the database provides, which can then be used to correct the results of experiment run on the full database. I use this information to reflect again on the findings I calculated in chapters two and three. Working manually also allows me to supplement database entries with my own research. In particular, it will allow me to use better metrics of quantity or popularity. Influenced by Lesser and Farmer\'92s articulation of \'93structures of popularity\'94 (\cb2 CITE\cb1 ), I will consider the popularity of the works in my random sample in terms of total number of editions, frequency of reprinting, and market share. Taking up David Brewer\'92s challenge to account for the increased \'93footprint\'94 of some texts beyond the moment of their original publication, I pay particular attention to works originally written before the 1790s which nonetheless can be considered important \'931790s literature\'94 due to prominent reprinting. Identifying this information for the few hundred titles in my sample is not easy, but it is at least 
\i possible
\i0 , unlike carrying out the same process on tens of thousands of titles. Again, I use the results of my manual investigation of my sample to calculate a guess about the corpus as a whole. At the end of the chapter, synthesizing all of my experiments across the dissertation, I postulate my own assessment of the number of titles published each year 1789-99, the relative quantity of various categories of writing, and the gender ratios of each category.}