{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Suggested chapter: DH study of the popular/mainstream press; recover contemporary printing practices; chapbooks and religious tracts; look at celebrity via print culture \'97 just \'93what was most popular during the day, according to what they\'92re showing us\'94 (draw this out as its own chapter). But how do you prove popularity? Why does one corpus show one popuar thing, and another show another. Do our major corpora just show us what the major publishing houses published? (Bring my questions about celebrity and reprinting into this chapter)\
\
\
Celebrity: easy to say a woman was famous but then forgotten, but once I have my corpora etc I can meaningfully ask how famous they were; but stick just to the 1790s, and not get into questions that will require engagement with the 19thC. (Can I figure how, comparatively, how famous people are in the ebbs and flows of the 1790s)\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi480\sl400\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Chapter two introduces the driving stakes of the dissertation: it asks what long-term impact literary celebrity has on an author\'92s legacy, particularly for male versus female authors. I want to contextualize individual writers\'92 claims both to popularity (Hannah More) and to obscurity (William Wordsworth). I hypothesize that some level of celebrity assists male authors in achieving long-lasting legacies, but that celebrity is of no help to female authors, and may even harm the perceived \'93seriousness\'94 of their reputations. Influenced by Ashley J. Cross\'92s \'93From Lyrical Ballads to Lyrical Tales: Mary Robinson's Reputation and the Problem of Literary Debt,\'94 I am interested in exploring the careers of Mary Robinson and Samuel Taylor Coleridge as my \'93case study\'94 for this chapter. The technical challenge in this chapter lies in developing metrics for \'93popularity,\'94 \'93celebrity,\'94 and \'93legacy\'94 which are both fruitful and nuanced. In addition to reading the extensive literature grappling with these concerns for individual authors, I am currently thinking of ways to use mentions in reviews and news articles as an index of celebrity, and posthumous printings as an index of legacy. I may also add scholarly uptake (perhaps through the proxy of \'a0JSTOR articles, since JSTOR makes their archive accessible for experiments of this type) as a particular sub-type of \'93legacy.\'94
\fs30 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
Taking up David Brewer\'92s challenge in \'93Counting, Resonance, and Form\'94 to account for the increased \'93footprint\'94 of some texts beyond the moment of their original publication, my third chapter turns it attention to works originally written before the 1790s which nonetheless can be considered important \'931790s literature\'94 due to prominent reprinting (or, in the case of plays, re-staging). The chapter\'92s first question is one of discovery: what works resurface in this decade? Its next question is one of close-reading and historical context: what makes them seem newly relevant? As in my first chapter, the \'93case study\'94 texts for this chapter will emerge from my broader research. I am particularly eager to investigate timely re-stagings of plays, given the heightened ephemerality and thus timeliness of theatrical productions compared to print; my first step is to assemble a precise timeline of what was staged during the period. For printed works, some initial exploration suggests that Shakespeare, Oliver Goldsmith, Daniel Defoe, Samuel Johnson, or Milton are prominent in the English Short Title Catalogue and therefore might be of interest. I will need to determine what distinction, if any, I might want to draw between \'93canonical\'94 authors like Shakespeare and Milton, whose posthumous prominence is predictable, and any shorter-lived targeted reprintings that I might discover.\
\
My fourth chapter takes a different tack to focus on widely-read works that are often excluded from \'931790s literature\'94: chapbooks. These are usually excluded for not being \'93literature\'94 rather than not being \'931790s\'94 (though part of my inquiry will also be to determine how \'91out of date\'92 chapbooks would get before reaching their readers, and how this compares to book publishing). This print-historical chapter seeks to explore what is often seen as a \'93gap\'94 in William St. Clair\'92s history, to see how much we do know about the chapbook trade. I am particularly interested in pamphlets produced in response to other pamphlets, and whether there are geographic or social disjunctions in timeliness. This chapter will of course address Hannah More\'92s Cheap Repository Tracts, but I am equally curious about the works among which hers were sold. My \'93case study\'94 could trace the printing and circulation of one of More\'92s pamphlets and some of its fellow-travellers, as the foundation for a discussion of More\'92s hybrid literary forms. 
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Another argument I hope to advance is that literary works can be considered relevant to a given literary period, even after their original publication; my third chapter turns its attention to works originally written before the 1790s which nonetheless can be considered as important \'931790s literature\'94 due to successive re-printings during that decade.
\f1\fs24 \
}