{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 One reason that it can be informative to close-read the data structures of a resource like the ESTC is that a resource\'92s categories of knowledge are driven by the 
\i uses
\i0  to which it expects that knowledge to be put. Examining the implicit assumptions that will make a given organization of knowledge seem logical, we can work backwards to the purpose of mission of the initial knowledge creation. Thus Tabor describes the data structure and the mission of the ESTC in a single statement: \cf0 \'93ESTC\'92s most basic bibliographical function is to provide, for each edition, a description of the ideal copy, meaning the most complete and correct manifestation of that edition as the printer and publisher intended it\'94 (369).\cf2  Korshin further elaborates the use envisioned for this information: \'93\cf0 the ESTC's cataloguing rules have been devised in such a way that a scholar anywhere in the world can tell, from the ESTC entry, whether the copy of the book in\cf2  \cf0 his or her library is the same or different from the one listed in ESTC\'94 (211)\cf2 . Both \'93edition\'94 and \'93ideal copy\'94 are terms defined around the interests of a specialist audience of bibliographers, which bear inexact but important relationships to the formulation of an ESTC record.\
An \'93edition\'94 is a group of copies of a work which are understood to be interchangeable with each other \cf0 (Tabor {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B7496139-906E-413C-8E13-835E2AE86BE0"}}{\fldrslt 369)\cf2 ,}}\cf2  though in practice different levels of granularity are applied in distinguishing between editions. \cf0 The ESTC sometimes has separate entries for groups within an edition \'93when certain separately planned marketing units can be identified within the edition, such as reissues, imprint variants, and large versus regular-paper copies\'94 (Tabor 369).\cf2  Karian describes that \cf0 \'93\cf2 [s]\cf0 ometimes the ESTC contains additional records if there are multiple 
\i states
\i0  of an edition (a different state results from cancels or minor changes to the setting of type)\'94 (289)\cf2 . \cf0 Or, in \'93the later eighteenth century, when reprints from standing type became more common, ESTC cataloguers have occasionally granularized down to the level of individual impressions\'94 (Tabor 369).\cf2  As a result, Karian argues persuasively that ESTC records should not be treated as synonymous with \'93editions,\'94 \'93issues,\'94 or \'93titles,\'94 since the same definitions of those boundaries may not be applied consistently. The specific question he poses is \'93\cf0 What is the unit that the ESTC uses?\cf2 \'94 (289), and important question, to which the answer cannot really be \'93editions,\'94 despite the best attempts of the ESTC bibliographers. Instead, he says \'93\cf0 one should refer instead only to the ESTC record, a unit created by the ESTC and having no meaning outside the ESTC\'94 (Karian {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1C2C30DA-19DF-4159-B284-BE5A2D9180CB"}}{\fldrslt 289)\cf2 .}}\cf2 \
The \'93ideal copy,\'94 too, represents an interpretation. Because the ESTC is essentially a movel based on limited samples of an imagined lost prior whole \'97 \'93\cf0 the most complete and correct manifestation of that edition as the printer and publisher intended it\cf2 ,\'94 as Tabor termed it (369) \'97 a new sample can change the model. As Tabor describes, \cf0 \'93\cf2 [a]\cf0 s additional reports of copies arrive, it may be that the ideal description must change in response. For instance, the existence of a half-title may only emerge on the evidence of the seventh copy reported. A half-title would then be added to the description of the ideal copy, and the six previously matched physical copies will receive notes recording that they are imperfect in this respect\'94 (370).\cf2  The ideal copy, like the database itself, thus represents a moving target.\
}