{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;\red253\green162\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c99933\c71615\c100000;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 My research uses new computational tools to revisit longstanding questions about literary canonical formation, and examines the new questions raised by [corpora as the new canons].\
Despite the crucial importance of corpus-building (that is, the accumulation of a large body of text files for analysis) to the interpretation of \'93distant reading\'94 research, it is often extremely difficult to know what is in a corpus. Even large institutional resources used by many scholars provide little context for their choices of what to include or exclude. These hidden choices are particularly problematic when historical selection factors might have led to the creation of databases which re-create social inequalities. I focus specifically on writing printed in England between 1789 and 1799, to explore how works from this eleven-year \'93decade\'94 have been selected as important, literary, or popular. The late eighteenth century is a thematically resonant moment for the questions I ask: \cf2 \cb3 [LOTS OF PRODUCTION, PEOPLE TRYING TO SELECT.]\cf2 \cb1  For this period, the English Short Title Catalogue provides basic bibliographic data for nearly 52,000 titles, but the Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation Partnership corpus of XML-encoded full texts \'97 the source for most distant reading research on eighteenth century literature \'97 includes fewer than 500 titles. This difference raises the question: why were the other 51,500 titles not considered worth the investment of scholarly effort? And with particular urgency: do the most invested-in resources underrepresent women? \
My experiments examine six major databases to answer these questions: The English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC), Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO), the Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation Partnership (ECCO-TCP), Google Books, Project Gutenberg, and HathiTrust. For each database, I calculate how many works printed in England 1789-1799 are attributed to male, female, or unknown authors, and compare the representation of broad categories of writing like poetry, drama, prose fiction, sermons, non-fiction, and ephemera. Identifying these categories of writing within each database reveals a predictable preference for \'93literary\'94 forms such as novels and poetry (rather than non-fiction or sermons) in the smaller databases. This preference for particular kinds of writing might explain changes in gender representation. If novels are mostly written by women, for example, a corpus can underrepresent women by under-representing novels. Or it could include a representative number of novels, but disproportionately include novels by men. My investigation allows me to identify the patterns of selection.\
This \'93case study\'94 of a particular decade [allows me to do something something about how collections of texts implicitly create identity-based collectives]\cf4 \
\
\cf2 \
\
\
In literary study, scholars increasingly embrace the methods of \'93distant reading\'94 to study hundreds or thousands of texts using computational tools. As an alternative to \'93close reading,\'94 distant reading promised an exciting opportunity to expand the borders of which literature would merit serious attention. However, in the nearly twenty years since Franco Moretti coined the term \'93distant reading\'94 in his \'93Conjectures on World Literature,\'94 the introduction of computation has not changed the preference for a limited, selective canon. A recent article by Kathleen Bode exemplifies a current shift in digital humanities research. Bode critiques pioneers of distant reading and literary macroanalysis Franco Moretti and Matthew Jockers, arguing that they too often disregard the provenance of the thousands of texts they use as proof of their arguments. As an alternative, Bode calls for an integration of computational research with the textual scholarship of fields like bibliography and book history, which she terms a \'93data-rich literary history.\'94 My dissertation answers this call by systematically researching all texts printed in England between the years 1789 to 1799, to redefine our understanding of the definitive works of this decade. \
\
\
\
Bibliography \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li360\fi-360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs22 Bode, Katherine. \'93The Equivalence of \'91Close\'92 and \'91Distant\'92 Reading; Or, Towards a New Object for Data-Rich Literary History.\'94 Modern Language Quarterly 78.1 (December 2017): 77-106. \
\'97-. \'93Why You Can\'92t Model Away Bias.\'94 Preprint: Modern Language Quarterly, volume 80, number 3, forthcoming 2020. \
Brewer, David. \'93Counting, Resonance, and Form, A Speculative Manifesto.\'94 Eighteenth- Century Fiction, volume 24, issue 2, 2011, pp. 161-170. \
Clery, E.J. The Rise of Supernatural Fiction 1762-1800. Cambridge UP, 1995.\uc0\u8232 Drucker, Johanna. Graphesis: Visual Forms of Knowledge Production. Harvard UP, 2014. Farmer, Alan, and Zachary Lesser. \'93Structures of Popularity in the Early Modern Book Trade.\'94 \
Shakespeare Quarterly 56.2 (2005): 206\'9613.\uc0\u8232 Felski, Rita. The Limits of Critique. U Chicago, 2015.\u8232 Fischer-Starcke, Bettina. Corpus Linguistics in Literary Analysis: Jane Austen and Her \
Contemporaries. Continuum, 2010\uc0\u8232 Gamer, Michael. Romanticism and the Gothic: Genre, Reception, and Canon Formation. \
Cambridge UP, 2000.\uc0\u8232 Garside, Peter et al., eds. The English novel, 1770-1829: A Bibliographical Survey of Prose \
Fiction Published in the British Isles. Oxford UP, 2000.\uc0\u8232 Gavin, Michael. \'93Historical Text Networks: The Sociology of Early English Criticism.\'94 \
Eighteenth-Century Studies, volume 50, number 1, 2016, pp. 53-80.\uc0\u8232 Gilmartin, Kevin. Print politics: The Press and Radical Opposition in Early Nineteenth-Century \
England. Cambridge UP, 1996.\uc0\u8232 Guillory, John. Cultural Capital: The Problem of Literary Canon Formation. U Chicago, 1993. Jockers, Matthew. Macroanalysis: Digital Methods and Literary History. U Illinois, 2013. Klancher, Jon P. The Making of English Reading Audiences, 1790-1832. U Wisconsin, 1987. Lahti, Leo, Niko Ilom\'e4ki, and Mikko Tolonen. \'93A Quantitative Study of History in the English \
Short-Title Catalogue (ESTC), 1470-1800.\'94 LIBER Quarterly, volume 25, number 2, 2015, pp. 87\'9631.\cf2 \
\cf0 Love, Heather. \'93Close but Not Deep: Literary Ethics and the Descriptive Turn.\'94 New Literary History, volume 41, issue 2, 2010, pp. 371\'96391.\cf2 \
\cf0 Marcus, Sharon, Heather Love, and Stephen Best. \'93Building a Better Description.\'94\cf2  \cf0 Representations, volume 135, number 1, Summer 2016, pp. 2-21.\cf2 \
\cf0 McCarty, Willard. \'93Knowing: Modeling in Literary Studies.\'94 A Companion to Digital Literary \
Studies, ed. Susan Schreibman and Ray Siemens. Blackwell, 2008.\cf2 \
\cf0 Mee, John. Print, Publicity, and Popular Radicalism in the 1790s. Cambridge UP, 2016 \cf2 \
\cf0 Moretti, Franco. \'93Conjectures on World Literature.\'94 New Left Review, volume 1, issue 1, 2000, pp. 54 - 67.\uc0\u8232 \'97-. Distant Reading. Verso, 2013.\cf2 \
\cf0 Samuels, Lisa and Jerome McGann. \'93Deformance and Interpretation.\'94 New Literary History volume 30, number 1, Winter 1999, pp. 25-56.\uc0\u8232 Sedgwick, Eve. \'93Paranoid Reading and Reparative Reading, or, You\'92re So Paranoid, You Probably Think This Essay Is About You.\'94 Touching Feeling. Duke UP, 2003. St. Clair, William. The Reading Nation in the Romantic Period. Cambridge UP, 2004. Worrall, David. Radical Culture: Discourse, Resistance and Surveillance, 1790-1820. \
Harwester Wheatsheaf, 1992. 
\f1\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}