{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 In chapter three, I intervene in these corpora with code which I have written myself. First, I seek to determine how many of the titles in each database are attributed to men, how many to women, and how many are unsigned or unattributable. I will consider both the authors listed on the title pages and the authors identified by the database itself, since these often differ. This experiment will rely on a small program which assigns a probable gender to each author {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3767B1BC-27FF-4038-ACE4-E4F57AAFEA7F"}}{\fldrslt name.}} One of the core questions of this dissertation, as discussed, is about the content of the works which are not preserved and distributed by the new structures of canonization which contemporary digital archives create. In this experiment, I ask pointedly: are men preferentially preserved? My second experiment in this chapter is related, as I seek to determine what kinds of writing are included in each corpus. I write a less-simple series of programs in order to make reasonable guesses at the contents of texts, using topic modelling. Topic modelling is a methodology used in computer science to group texts which discuss similar subject matter. It is designed for search engines, and relies on clustering related keywords. Topic modelling is usually applied to long texts: it was designed for news articles or web pages, but literary scholars often apply it to entire novels. Since my work is partly motivated by the unavailability of full digital texts, I apply it to just the title pages of works. In doing so, I take advantage of the eighteenth century\'92s distinctively rich title {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AE3E2402-8DC7-4098-BDD9-B0409CF4D4AE"}}{\fldrslt conventions.}} In most decades, a title would not offer enough information to contain multiple \'91topics,\'92 but in the eighteenth century, the title page doubled as an advertisement, trying to convey as much appealing information as possible about the work\'92s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8C22562D-16F2-4A6E-AA6D-D35D11FA65EB"}}{\fldrslt contents.}} Once I have created my topic models, I will use them to compare the prevalence of categories like plays, songs, prose romance, histories, poetry, political treatises, and other broad categories of writing. One advantage of using topic modelling, rather than classifying works by hand, is that the clusters of texts will emerge based on the eighteenth century vocabulary for genres. At this stage, however, I do not take any corpus as representative of the \'91true\'92 distribution of various genres in the eighteenth century print marketplace. Instead, I use these categories in conjunction with my previous identification of authorial gender, to ask: if there are differences in gender distribution between corpora, are they attributable to differences in the kinds of writing which each corpus preferentially preserves? That is to say, if men are over-represented in the smaller and richer corpora which have seen the greatest investment of scholarly resources, is this because those corpora primarily preserve male-dominated categories of writing? Or do they preferentially select male authors from categories which are not male-dominated at the larger scale?}