{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Having recaptured these complex networks in some depth, I can then examine them, in chapter five, for their relation to our current understanding of \cf2 mainstream and radical \'97 or as I am terming them \'93mainstream\'94 and \'93non-mainstream\'94 \'97 printing circles\cf0 . My network graphs will model individual political affiliation as a complex, socially defined practice rather than a set of concrete and unchanging ideological stances. This chapter will look for traces of affiliation in the print practices of publishers and of author\cf3 s\cf0 . I will consider individual printers with political allegiances, as in Dissenting societies, radical publishers, correspondence societies. This will then enable me to consider authors\'92 strategic choices as they publish with different printers. Having identified radical elements in the publishing world, I will interrogate the radicals\'92 claims to marginalization. I suspect that I might find that they were not as socially estranged from the mainstream as they describe themselves, and that their printed works may accordingly have been less marginal. I will discuss alternative print markets and alternative circulation, in context with the print production which they are alternatives to. The circulation of works in manuscript presents me two challenges which will be discussed here. The first challenge is methodological: the circulation of manuscripts clearly occurred, and may have constituted \'93publication\'94 within social circles, but manuscripts fall outside my purview. This chapter will therefore discuss the nature and rough shape of the gap which the exclusion of manuscript works leaves in my study. The second\cf4  task of this\cf0  chapter is more theoretical: as queer and decolonial DH scholars note, there is an ethical choice implicated in the decision to systematically discover, collect, and expose communities which intentionally operated below the notice of state observation. Historical distance prevents me from worrying about causing direct harm through my work, but nonetheless I will critically interrogate my own research practices and contextualize my choices with the horizon of expectations within the radical circles I expose. Finally, having discussed the networks of radical and mainstream publishing in the 1790s, I will also compare the position of radical publishers in the 1790s with their \cf2 status\cf0  in the corpora discussed in chapters two and three\cf2  (\cf0 where they may in fact be marginalized\cf2 ; I expect to find\cf0  conservative works overrepresented in the corpora\cf2 )\cf0 . Together, these approaches will further complicate the story of popularity which the dissertation challenges\cf4  elsewhere\cf0 , by suggesting ways to reassess of the popularity of radical works.}