{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Several years in to the project, Gale released a new interface for their various collections, the Digital Scholar Lab, which provided new forms of access to ECCO texts. Through the Digital Scholar Lab, it was now permitted to download the OCR transcripts of facsimiles, though only 10,000 items could be downloaded at a time. To work within the Digital Scholar Lab\'92s restrictions, I created eleven \'93Content Sets,\'94 one for each year 1789-99, and downloaded them individually. The query used to find each year\'92s works was \'93LIMITS: Archive (Eighteenth Century Collections Online) And Publication Date (1789).\'94 All content sets were downloaded on June 2, 2020. For each content set, I downloaded the provided \'93metadata\'94 .csv, and then used a simple Terminal command (cat *.csv >merged.csv) to merge them together.\
\
The merged spreadsheet of all eleven years had 45,027 rows. Adding the number of files in each year gives a total of 45,017, so the merged spreadsheet has 10 extra rows \'97 probably repeating the title headings.\
For reference, I ran a search with the query \'93LIMITS: Archive (Eighteenth Century Collections Online) And Publication Date (1789 - 1799),\'94 which returned 44,121 results. This is a particularly unexpected mismatch, since it means items 
\i did
\i0  appear when I searched for one year (e.g., 1797) but 
\i didn\'92t
\i0  appear when I searched for a range of years that ought to have included that year. Unfortunately, since I can\'92t make a \'93content set\'94 of all 44,121 items, there is no simple way to determine which 906 items mysteriously failed to appear.\
Olli McMullin cleverly suggested that this mismatch might be due to serial publications, which appear in each of the years with which they are associated (counting them multiple times in the merged set) but only once in the full-span search. I investigated Helen Maria Williams\'92 
\i Letters Written in France
\i0  as a 1790s serial publication to see if this might be occurring. Indeed, 
\i Letters on the French Revolution, written in France, in the summer of 1790, to a friend in England; containing, various anecdotes relative to that interesting event, and memoirs of Mons. and Madame Du F--. By Helen Maria Williams 
\i0 (CW0104715153), which has the publication date \'93MDCCXCI[-MDCCXCII] [1791-1792]\cf3 ,\cf2 \'94\cf3  appeared in both 1791 and 1921 content sets.\cf2  This is not exactly a serial work, but rather a work of uncertain or flexible date, making the double-counting less appropriate. However, it can be addressed by removing duplicated Gale document ID numbers.}