{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
Gothic: synthesize popular and political? Radcial novels are often Gothic; but Gothic is also highly popular/mainstream. Not just a simple fusion of mass and racial media, but something there? Gothic as a mode or material that people want to have an inherent political content, but in fact it can be used for any agenda, it can be used for various forms\'85 but there\'92s a lot that can\'92t be reshaped? Repackages radical themes to be mass accessible (melodrama?)? \'97 Re-read Gary Kelley\'92s Jacobin Novel; something on melodrama\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf4 \cb5 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 TODO: Slot all the bits that I don\'92t want to lose into this new structure\
\
Ongoing warning: I\'92m not trying to talk to undergrads, so I don\'92t need to debunk undergrad misperceptions. Read more secondary literature. Email Terry for books more often!\
\
Mention that I am writing my own code, and that I think it\'92s crucial to read code and critique its algorithmic assumptions. 
\i Very
\i0  explicit about methods. 2015 NSF report on reproducibility of research. My methods have to be able to explain 
\i how
\i0  they are trustworthy.\
(Put datasets in open access \'97 T-space? Cultural Analytics?)\
(Can generate a lot of words on methods section \'97 but don\'92t bury in appendices? Instead put it in methods sections? 10,000 words, not 40,000 words. Remember that Terry is the audience.)\
\
To read: Alan Liu \'97 read his work on Romantic canonization; try to meet him? Him and the editors of Romantic Circles are the godfathers of DH and Romanticism. Just had one in PMLA about disjunction between DH and literary critics, how we frame questions and results\
Stephen Berhrendt? Editor of Romantic Circles?\
\
Meet as soon as possible, by early April, with a new version. First send a next draft, then we\'92ll meet. }