{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 Having described a large and complex scholarly context for this work, and made some preliminary efforts toward synthesis of these disparate backgrounds, it is time, now, to describe the work undertaken here in more detail. This dissertation examines the literature of the 1790s through the lens of \'91titles.\'92 Throughout this work, a \'91title\'92 is the broadest possible umbrella term for a text: it is synonymous with \'91a database entry which I believe to represent a printed work.\'92 I draw materials from the English Short-Title Catalogue (ESTC), Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO), the ECCO Text Creation Partnership corpus (ECCO-TCP), HathiTrust, ProQuest, the British Library\'92s Nineteenth Century Book Corpus (BL), the Early Novels Database (END), Gale\'92s digitized microfiche of the Corvey collection, Google Books, the Internet Archive, and Project Gutenberg. Each individual database will shape the precise correspondences between a \'91title\'92 and the printed texts about which I use \'91titles\'92 to reason. For example, it will vary based on my source whether multiple editions of the same work are several \'91titles\'92 or one \'91title,\'92 and whether the titles exclusively represent \'91books\'92 or also include chapbooks, broadsheets, or even ephemera. Due to the inscrutability of much digital infrastructure, it is often not possible for me to know prior to experimentation what kinds of titles I am working with. These variations form part of my object of inquiry. Substantial time is taken to establish the history and constraints of each of these resources to contextualize the role they play in contemporary digital research. Using the information they make most readily accessible, I explore which works and individuals emerge as \'91popular\'92 or \'91important\'92 in each resource. I also probe each resource for its representation of (or failure to represent) my touchstone authors, Ann Radcliffe, Charlotte Turner Smith, Hannah More, and Mary Robinson. The resulting findings are primarily used to evaluate how the underlying digital resources participate in or resist the projects of canon-building. Then, there is a \'91turn,\'92 where I introduce programs of my own design to repurposes these materials. These experiments are then used to draw conclusions about 1790s print culture.}