{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Second experiment: identify genre make-up of databases. 
\b0 (Develop something using topic modelling of titles.) \
\cf2 \'93A Romance By Any Other Name: Topic Modelling for an Ontology of 1790s Genres.\'94 Keystone DH. Philadelphia, PA, July 8-10.\cf3 \
\
When working with large literary databases, scholars naturally wish to know what 
\i kind
\i0  of literature they are working with. A high incidence of religious language in an eighteenth century corpus, for example, will mean something different depending on how many of the documents included in the corpus are sermons. However, the larger and more heterogenous the database, the less likely it is that all of its contents have been thoroughly and consistently identified. Eighteenth century texts predate systems such as the Library of Congress subject headings, so many of the holdings in widely-used resources such as the English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC), Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO), and ECCO Text Creation Partnership (ECCO-TCP) include no metadata regarding their contents\'92 subject matter. This paper demonstrates the results of a method to assign subject matter designations to all works within these corpora, taking advantage of one of the unique features of eighteenth century literature: long and descriptive titles. Eighteenth century books were advertised and sold without any visual cues as to their contents; they attracted readers through the strength of their title pages alone. Their lengthy titles therefore intentionally communicate their genres, and, as my paper demonstrates, their messages can be distilled through topic modelling. I present my results for the 52,000 titles printed in England between 1789 and 1799, and discuss the resulting ontology of generic categories. As I demonstrate, inferring genres based on how texts describe themselves produces a very different picture of the categories of textual production than the post-facto descriptions that later generations of scholars have produced. I am then able to use these subject categories to compare the contents of several commonly-used digital resources, to identify how representative of eighteenth century literature as a whole each database is. Finally, I discuss how my methods might be adapted to address similar gaps in metadata in related fields.\
\
\
\
\'93Secrets worth knowing; a comedy, in five acts. As performed at the Theatre Royal, Covent Garden\'94 \'97 which we can infer is a play \'97 or \'93True patriotism; or, a public spirit for God and religion recommended, and the want of it reprehended. A discourse: the substance of which was delivered before the Associate Synod, Et At Edinburgh on a Day of Humiliation Observed by them\'94 \'97 which we can infer is a sermon.}