{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Digital archives of literary works are often used to study large scale literary phenomena. However, these archives\'92 collection practices are not made transparent to researchers \'97 especially in commercial archives, which market their collections as \'93comprehensive.\'94 The inaccessibility of collection data makes it difficult to identify whether a digital archive is demographically representative of the historic literature it contains. The demographics of digital archives require closer scrutiny because of the high likelihood that these repositories recreate the historic patterns of exclusion and marginalization which often shape the physical collections upon which they are based. In nineteenth century novels, for example, recent work has found that women\'92s works are substantially less likely to be digitized than men\'92s. I examined records from four digital literary resource \'97 the English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC), Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO), HathiTrust, and the Text Creation Partnership (TCP) corpus \'97 to evaluate how eighteenth century studies might be affected by uneven practices of digitization. Because the existing metadata in these resources does not allow a direct study of gender, I took a chronological sample from each archive of all works in any genre published in England between 1789 and 1799, and manually identified the authorial gender for these 51,000 works. The four resources, each of which includes different kinds of material, all had substantially different author demographics for the same time period. Women are attributed as authors for only 3% of the works listed in the ESTC, 3% of ECCO, 5% of HathiTrust, and a disproportionate 22% of the TCP. However, works by men are not proportionately reduced; instead, the works which fail to garner institutional support are those without known individual authors. Nearly half of the works in the ESTC (46%) are by unsigned or corporate authors, declining to 29% in ECCO, 20% in HathiTrust, and only 2% in the TCP. Much of this decline is caused by the fact that, once scholars identify the author of an unsigned work, they replace its attribution in the database with the new information. In this way, \'93newer and better\'94 metadata obscures our knowledge of eighteenth century print, overwriting an eighteenth century culture of pseudonymous publication with a modern emphasis on the individuality of the author. It is also the case that a work without something appealing in the \'93author\'94 field of the database is less likely to attract scholarly attention. By neglecting unsigned works, we fundamentally misunderstand the world in which women published during the eighteenth century\'97 and, ironically, we likely overlook many works by women. Encoding the metadata of attribution and authorship as separate traits\'97 and allowing other metadata fields, such as format or publisher, to eclipse authorship in importance\'97 enables important new ways of knowing the history of print.\
\
The \'93author\'94 field of the literary database \
\
Despite the common disavowal of biographical criticism, contemporary scholarly practices turn the figure of the author into a central explanatory feature, without which a work declines in value.\
\
 In addition to illuminating the impact of the material conditions of each archive\'92s initial creation, \
these findings illustrate a perhaps-uncomfortable truth about the continued importance of \'93the author\'94 as a organizing form of knowledge in literary studies. \
Biographical criticism remains largely \
\
\
This suggests that scholars get interested in people about whom some things are already known. \
revealing the extent to which literary studies remains dominated by the idea of the author as an individual.\
\
How metadata functions as knowledge and/or creates meaning\
The role of metadata and open knowledge in addressing, or not addressing, issues of under- and misrepresentation of traditionally marginalized groups and knowledge\
Critiques of metadata and what is \'93knowable\'94\
\
 \
\
\
I propose a mid-length academic article presenting my findings.\
\
Large-scale digital archives often function as a \'93black box\'94 for researchers who rely on them to draw macroanalytic conclusions.\
\
Any digital literary archive is built around underlying assumptions of what literature is, who it is for, and how it is meant to be used.\
Despite the impression they give of always being up to date, digital archive often reflect older conceptions of what kinds of literature merit preservation.\
\
The lack of relevant metadata has prevented us from knowing what we\'92re working with.\
\
Given widespread critiques of digital archives as creating 
\i de facto
\i0  literary canons, rendering some works easier to access than others, it becomes urgent to know: do these archives systematically exclude works by women? This question cannot be answered without relevant metadata.\
\
I present my findings: that }