{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 My attention to the 
\i sources
\i0  of digital knowledge creation comes\cf2 , in part,\cf0  from Johanna Drucker, and her distinction between \'93data\'94 and \'93capta.\'94 Drucker, in \'93Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display,\'94 specifically addresses the digital humanities practice of creating, and then close-reading, data visualizations. She argues that the tools for visual representation which may be effective in the sciences cannot be simply and uncritically transposed to humanistic subject matter. When an experiment is presented as a \'91data visualization,\'92 she says, \'93the rendering of statistical information into graphical form gives it a simplicity and legibility that hides every aspect of the original interpretative framework\'94 \\cite\{Drucker:2011uo p.8\}. In fields where the readers of such charts are also frequent creators of charts, and where norms exist to explicitly describe one\'92s interpretive frameworks in a methodology section, the simplicity and legibility of an individual chart may be a benefit which does not impede complex scrutiny of the information it {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0C76DE12-FA8E-4676-AB5C-CA3B8C284ED2"}}{\fldrslt presents.}} In a field like literature, however, the \'93graphical force\'94 of something like a network graph or even a simple pie chart \'93conceals what the statistician knows very well \'97 that no \'91data\'92 preexist their parameterization\'94 \\cite\{Drucker:2011uo p.8\}. Drucker problematizes the term \'93data,\'94 the etymology of which presents it as a \'93given\'94 which is stable and independent of observation. She proposes that humanities visualizations embrace, instead, the framework of \'93capta,\'94 that which is \'93\'91taken\'92 actively\'94 \\cite\{Drucker:2011uo p.3\}, \'93fundamentally codependent, constituted relationally, between observer and observed phenomena\'94 \\cite\{Drucker:2011uo p.50\}. Drucker\'92s assessment shapes my own prioritization of qualitative and reflective computational research. The term \'93capta\'94 itself has not seen uptake in subsequent digital humanities scholarship, even in cases where scholars explicitly take Drucker\'92s warnings to heart. Accordingly, for clarity, this dissertation will continue to use the more usual term \'93data\'94 to refer to the information gathered for analysis here. However, as I integrate and compare a wide variety of data from many disparate sources, a preliminary task of my analysis is always to determine, as precisely as possible, how the information was captured and quantified. }