{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 As I encounter the limitations of the various information and tools with through which I attempt to understand the 1790s, my goal is to do something other than facilely observe that they are limited. Critique, in many venues, still has valuable new information to contribute regarding the contemporary digital landscape. Drucker, Noble, and Chun\'92s warnings about the subjective nature of data and algorithms, for example, all have the potential for urgent relevance. In part because their critiques have been presented so effectively, however, I do not give critique a central role here. Most of the digital artefacts that I examine have been created, not by ever-hungering capitalist corporations, but by my fellow scholars. In the spirit of laying down the next few stones in the building of a cathedral begun long before me, I want to identify the best ways to continue building on their foundations. In a digital humanities context, a focus on building connections can be mundanely practical: typing indexes from print works into spreadsheets, correcting errors within datasets, writing programs to process metadata: all of these maintain the functional usability of existing resources in new contexts. When this kind of extended, detail-oriented labour is combined with serious reflection on the histories and possible futures of these resources, I contend, they bring us to new knowledge. In this, maintaining and using digital resources is also a way to repair them \'97 and to produce reparative readings of their contents.}