{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A Reassessment of the Authorship of the 
\i \cf2 Cheap Repository Tracts 
\i0 \cf2 Anna Maree Blanch, M.A.\uc0\u8232 
\fs24 \
\cf3 \'94At the time of the Repository\'92s conception in 1794, More\'92s public profile was that of a playwright and a controversial political commentator, yet, the annals of literary history emphasize her contributions as an educator and religious writer (Brown 32; Yonge Hannah More 463; Philp 67; More Considerations on Religion and Public Education xiv). The Cheap Repository Tracts, a collection of inexpensive moral and religious tracts, are an important factor in the construction of her reputation and the subsequent reception of her work. Indeed, the \'82sublime and immortal
\f1 \uc0\u8219 
\f0  Cheap Repository is the primary reason she is considered by some to have been the most prominent woman evangelical campaigner in England between 1780 and 1810 (M. G. Jones 139; Roberts 5; Yonge "Children's Literature of the Last Century" 231).1\'94 (Blanch 1)\
\'93
\fs32 \cf2 This thesis contends that the extent of Hannah More\'92s contribution to the Cheap Repository has never been definitively established and that there is a need for clarification of the authorship of individual tracts and bibliographical scholarship relating to the series. This thesis details the current state of bibliographical scholarship as it relates to the Cheap Repository Tracts and identifies those tracts for which authorship can be established conclusively as well as those for which establishing authorship is problematic and must remain inconclusive or unknown. This thesis will also explore the context in which the Cheap Repository Tracts were published and suggest that ascertaining the authorship of individual tracts contributes productively to future criticism of the tracts within their socio-historical, theological and political context. 
\fs24 \cf3 \'93 (2)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 William Roberts was responsible for the first collection of More\'92s letters published in 1834 and as such heavily influenced the critical reception of More\'92s biographical life for the next hundred and twenty years. Roberts crafted a version of more through a judicious selection of letters, editing of their contents and general order including dating. See Anne Stott, Hannah More: The First Victorian (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003) viii-ix. The accompanying memoir penned by Roberts, and interspersed throughout the four volumes, is filled with his musings and interpretations of the events of Hannah More\'92s life. For example, Roberts removed criticism of the State and the Church arguably softening the ground for portrayals of More by feminist critics as complicit with the patriarchy. See William Roberts, Memoirs of the Life and Correspondence of Mrs Hannah More, 4th ed., 3 vols. (London: R.B Seeley & W Burnside, 1836). 
\fs24 \cf3 (7)\

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Volumes of collected Cheap Repository tracts were published in 1798, 1800, 1798, 1799, 1800, 1806, 1818, 1827 and 1839. 
\fs24 \cf3 (Blanch 6)\
\
Scholarly recognition of the lack of clarity regarding the Cheap Repository bibliography, including authorship, dates back to Augustus De Morgan in 1864 (241-45). One of the forefathers on non-traditional authorship attribution, De Morgan was a mathematics professor at London University (S. De Morgan 215-16). (11)\
In 1939, G.H. Spinney compiled a bibliography of extant copies of the Cheap Repository tracts, printed by Hazard and Marshall and held by the British Library at that time. He also used the Stationers\'92 Hall Registers to confirm the date of publication of individual tracts. Although Spinney\'92s bibliography is often considered authoritative, Mitzi Myers strongly cautions against this confirmatory evaluation (Ford 127; Demers 110; Walker 251; Myers "Hannah More's Tracts for the Times: Social Fiction and Female Ideology" 281, n.9). Spinney\'92s bibliography is the most comprehensive in terms of discussing the historical context of the relationship between More and the printers of the Cheap Repository. Spinney initially sets the dates for the series at 1795-1798, which are the parameters most commonly repeated by scholars (295). However, Spinney later explains that Hannah More\'92s day-to- (11)\
day involvement with the Hazard and Marshall imprints ended in November, 1797 (295, 307).7 In November, 1797, More appointed Evans and Hatchard as the new publishers (307). Ten months later in September, 1798, More declared the Repository \'82closed,
\f1 \uc0\u8219 
\f0  and sold the rights to reprints to Evans, Hatchard and Rivington (Spinney 307-08). From November, 1797, to September, 1798, Evans was the authorized printer the Cheap Repository and was responsible for publishing the ten previously unpublished tracts produced during this period. However, and this is very important, despite being ostensibly sacked in November, 1797, John Marshall continued to sell reprints and publish new tracts under the name of the Cheap Repository, even going to the trouble of entering them under his own name at Stationer\'92s Hall (308). Seventy-three such tracts were published by Marshall between December, 1797, and November, 1799. (12)\
Statements describing Hannah More\'92s contributions have been repeated by generation after generation of scholars uncontested. The numbers \'82114,
\f1 \uc0\u8219 
\f0  for the number of tracts produced between 1795-1798, and \'8250,
\f1 \uc0\u8219 
\f0  for Hannah (12)\
More\'92s contributions are repeated ad nauseam. The key quotation which seems to be the source of all subsequent scholarship, is as follows: (13)\
Of the 114 different tracts published up to November 1797, 49 bear the initial \'91Z\'92 and 6 \'91S\'92. Those signed Z were by Hannah More; those signed S by Sarah More, her sister. The authorship of the \'91Z\'92 tracts is disclosed in Cadell\'92s collected edition of Hannah More\'92s works published in 1818. The statement that \'91S\'92 tracts were by Sarah More appears in Thompson\'92s life: he may have it from a private source, though it would not be difficult to guess. We are told in Roberts that the tracts were written by Hannah More with the assistance of her sisters and a few friends. To discover the identity of the \'91few friends\'92 who between them wrote the remaining 51 is now almost impossible (310).8 (13)\
However, the numbers do not add up, and it is not just that the numbers in the quote equal 106, not 114. Spinney\'92s conclusion specifically states that the count of 114 relates to \'82tracts published up to November, 1797
\f1 \uc0\u8219 
\f0  whereas many scholars that cite Spinney\'92s work and numerical conclusions often substitute an end date of 1798 without clarification or explanation (310). (13)\
The lack of particularity in many descriptions of More\'92s involvement in the Cheap Repository is often the consequence of a heavy reliance on Spinney. Some scholars show explicit deference, such as in the work of Jones (1952), Ford (1996), Smith (1996), and Pharr (1998), which refer to Spinney\'92s conclusions as to the total number of tracts and More\'92s contribution. (13)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 However, it was over twenty years ago that Mitzi Myers first cautioned against Spinney\'92s bibliography being considered exhaustive, because it is \'82incomplete
\f1 \uc0\u8219 
\f0  ("Hannah More's Tracts for the Times: Social Fiction and Female Ideology" 281, n. 9). In addition to her contention that the Spinney bibliography is \'82incomplete,
\f1 \uc0\u8219 
\f0  Myers acknowledges Spinney and Green as the relevant bibliographies, and explains that \'82most, but not all, of the tracts More wrote herself are reprinted in the various editions of her works, as well as in numerous collected editions
\f1 \uc0\u8219 
\f0  ("Hannah More's Tracts for the Times: Social Fiction and Female Ideology" 281, n.9). However, Myers does not provide an alternative bibliography or a numerical estimate of More\'92s contribution, beyond stating that: \'82More contributed almost one-half of the hundred odd pieces
\f1 \uc0\u8219 
\f0  ("Hannah More's Tracts for the Times: Social Fiction and Female Ideology" 266).
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf2 \up8 12 
\fs32 \cf2 \up0 Patricia Demers, author of The World of Hannah More (1996), also makes no numerical assertions as to the numbers of tracts or More\'92s contribution while footnoting Spinney, Jones and Myers (110). 
\fs24 \cf3 (17)\

\fs32 \cf2 More\'92s most recent, and efficacious, literary biographer Anne Stott, adroitly describes More as having \'82edit*ed+ the Cheap Repository Tracts
\f1 \uc0\u8219 
\f0  and argues that \'82overwhelmingly, the Cheap Repository was *More\'92s+ creation and her work
\f1 \uc0\u8219 
\f0  (178, 338). 
\fs24 \cf3 (18)\

\fs32 \cf2 Sometimes it appears, at first, that Spinney is not the source relied upon by scholars. However, on further examination it becomes clear that Spinney is in fact the root source for bibliographical claims made about Cheap Repository. For example, Linda Peterson relies on Susan Pederson\'92s attribution to Hannah More of such tracts as The Riot, The Loyal Sailor; or No Mutineering and Turn the Carpet to Hannah More (410). Susan Pederson in turn describes Hannah More, by Mary Jones, as being her source for the attribution of individual tracts, and specifically for her contention that More wrote \cf3 \'91\cf2 over fifty
\f1 \cf3 \'92
\f0 \cf2  of the tracts (85). However, an examination of Jones reveals that she acknowledges Spinney as 
\fs24 \cf3 / 
\fs32 \cf2 her source in her attribution of fifty-one tracts to More. \cf3 (19-20)
\fs24 \cf2 \
\cf3 \
}