{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green128\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c58980\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 In addition to being a prolific and interesting writing who was prominent across multiple genres (of which there are many other authors), Charlotte Smith offers an interesting case study in a \'91successful\'92 recovery project. This allows me to ask: to what extend do research infrastructures \'91lag behind\'92 scholarly consensus? No eighteenth centuryist is now likely to say that Smith is irrelevant or unimportant to the period. In the infrastructure of literary canons as described by Guillory, she has certainly succeeded: she is given prominent space in all anthologies of Romantic literature; she regularly appears on introductory syllabi, including surveys of all British literature; there are scholarly editions, and seminars, and dissertations, conference panels, and every other sign that she is an important and valued writer. But what about digital infrastructures? Are they \'93up to date\'94? For many I would say, not really. The ESTC ecosystem is still strongly shaped by editorial decisions made at the time of microfilming, or at the time of indexing. On Wikipedia, Smith herself had a respectable wiki article, but none of her major works were covered until I began to create those articles myself over the course of this dissertation. [FOOTNOTE: One reason this dissertation does not engage with Wikipedia as an object of study, despite many interesting implications, is because I am too involved as a wiki editor to maintain an arms-length distance.]}