{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red204\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 To understand the history of the ESTC and ECCO, we actually need to begin with another resource: Early English Books Online, or EEBO.\cf3 \
\
\'93EEBO\'92s relationship with the original STC and Wing is straightforward and clear; EEBO\'92s relationship with electronic ESTC, on the other hand, is less well-known.20 A series of agreements made between ESTC and University Microfilms/ProQuest between 1989 and 1997 allowed EEBO to draw directly on ESTC\'92s existing bibliographical data. Consequently, / every search run on EEBO (with some exceptions) relies, in a fundamental sense, on bibliographical information originally supplied by ESTC \'96 but not in the form that one might expect. First, EEBO heavily edited ESTC\'92s data for its own purposes: certain categories of data were removed (e.g. collations, Stationers\'92 Register entrances), some information was amended (e.g. subject headings), and some was added (e.g. microfilm- specific details). Second, there is no formal mechanism for synchronising the data between the two resources. Occasionally, snapshots of data are sent by EEBO to ESTC but there is no guarantee that a correction or revision made to an ESTC entry will be replicated in the corresponding EEBO entry or vice versa: neither ESTC nor EEBO will necessarily know when the other has made a correction. As both resources continue to amend and expand their bibliographical data for their own purposes, there is an increasing likelihood of significant discrepancy between the two resources. Finally, although EEBO continues to microfilm and digitise, there is no absolute one-to-one correspondence between the pre-1701 entries in ESTC and the materials on EEBO; there are \'96 and will always be \'96 items on ESTC not available on EEBO.\'94 (Gadd 685-6)\
\
\'93unlike scholarly facsimile editions, the selection process for microfilming was often arbitrary. Copies were selected primarily by reference to the copies listed in STC and Wing, with particular preference for certain major collections; they were not selected because they were considered representative of a particular edition. By bringing together the bibliographical record for an edition and (usually but not always) only a single witness of that edition,22 EEBO is obviously aiming to provide a useful scholarly mechanism in terms of searching but by doing so are implying \'96 albeit not deliberately \'96 that the record and the copy 
\i are
\i0  
\i one and the same thing
\i0 . It would be better, perhaps, if EEBO represented itself as a library of copies, rather than a catalogue of \'91titles\'92.\'94 (Gadd 687)\
\
\'93 in digitising the microfilms in their original forms, EEBO decided (presumably for commercial reasons rather than purely scholarly ones) against sanitising the images. Openings are retained rather than broken into single pages; images are not cropped; rulers, place-holders, and descriptive notes are left in place; blank leaves are not removed. While Kichuk\'92s concern about \'91remedia- tion\'92 is a real one, it is difficult to use EEBO for any length of time without being reminded that these are reproductions of actual objects.\'94 (Gadd 688)}