{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi-534\sl380\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cairo, Alberto. 
\i How Charts Lie
\i0 . 2019. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Cairo, Alberto. \'93Infographics to Explain, Data Visualizations to Explore.\'94 
\i The Functional Art Alberto Cairo\'92s Weblog on Visualization, Infographics, and Data Journalism
\i0 . N.p., 16 Mar. 2014. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Cairo, Alberto. 
\i The Truthful Art: Data, Charts, and Maps for Communication
\i0 . San Francisco: New Riders, 2016. Print.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs32 Facundo, A C. 
\i Oscillations of Literary Theory: the Paranoid Imperative and Queer Reparative
\i0 . 2016. Print.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs32 \cf3 \
\cf2 Jockers, Matthew. 
\i Macroanalysis
\i0 .
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Klein, Lauren. \'93Distant Reading After Moretti.\'94 2018. 1\'964. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Latour, Bruno. 
\i Reassembling the Social: an Introduction to Actor-Network-Theory
\i0 . Oxford UP, 2005. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Love, Heather. \'93Close but Not Deep: Literary Ethics and the Descriptive Turn.\'94 
\i New Literary History
\i0  41.2 (2010): 371\'96391. Web.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Love, Heather. \'93Close Reading and Thin Description.\'94 
\i Public Culture
\i0  25.3 71 (2013): 401\'96434. Web.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Mee, Jon. 
\i Print, Publicity, and Popular Radicalism in the 1790s: the Laurel of Liberty
\i0 . 2016. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Moretti, Franco. \'93Conjectures on World Literature.\'94 
\i New Left Review
\i0  1 (2000): n. pag. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Noble, Safiya. 
\i Algorithms of Oppression
\i0 . NYU Press, 2018. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Saavedra, Ryan. \'93Socialist Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D- NY) Claims That Algorithms, Which Are Driven by Math, Are Racist.\'94 (2019). Tweet.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Sedgwick, Eve Kosofsky. \'93Paranoid Reading and Reparative Reading.\'94 
\i Touching Feeling
\i0 . Durham & London: N.p., 2003. 123\'96151. Print. Or, You're So Paranoid, You Probably Think This Essay Is About You.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Taylor, George. 
\i The French Revolution and the London Stage, 1789-1805
\i0 . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2001. Web.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Tufte, E R. 
\i The Visual Display of Quantitative Information
\i0 . 2nd ed. Graphics Press, 2001. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Underwood, Ted. \'93A Genealogy of Distant Reading .\'94 
\i Digital Humanities Quarterly
\i0  11.2 (2017): 1\'9611. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Zwicker, Steven N. \'93Is There Such a Thing as Restoration Literature?.\'94 
\i Huntington Library Quarterly
\i0  69.3 (2006): 425\'96450. Web.
\f1\fs24 \
}