{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Miss Milner as an orphan is a coquette, primed for a story of reform\
I.II: \'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 "But now, Mr. Dorriforth, do not from what I have said,\'a0frighten yourself, and imagine your ward worse than she really is\'97all I know of her, is merely, that she's young, idle, indiscreet, and giddy, with half a dozen lovers in her suite; some coxcombs, others men of gallantry, some single, and others married."\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj
\cf4 Dorriforth started. "For the first time of my life," cried he with a manly sorrow, "I wish I had never known her father."\
"Nay," said Mrs. Horton, who expected every thing to happen just as she wished, (for neither an excellent education, the best company, or long experience had been able to cultivate or brighten this good lady's understanding,) "Nay," said she, "I am sure, Mr. Dorriforth, you will soon convert her from all her evil ways."\
"Dear me," returned Lady Evans, "I am sure I never meant to hint at any thing evil\'97and for what I have said, I will give you up my authors if you please; for they were not observations of my own; all I do is to mention them again."\
The good-natured Miss Woodley, who sat working at the window, an humble, but an attentive listener to this discourse, ventured here to say exactly six words: "Then don't mention them any more."
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'94\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 "Oh, tall enough of all conscience," returned she; "I tell you again that no fault can be found with her person."\
"But if her mind is defective"\'97exclaimed Dorriforth, with a sigh\'97\'97\
"That may be improved as well as the person," cried Miss Woodley.\
"No, my dear," returned Lady Evans, "I never heard of a pad to make straight an ill-shapen disposition."\
"Oh, yes," answered Miss Woodley, 
\b "good company, good books, experience, and the misfortunes of others, may have more power to form the mind to virtue, than"\'97\'97
\b0\fs22\fsmilli11200 \

\fs24 Miss Woodley was not permitted to proceed, for Lady Evans rising hastily from her seat, cried, "I must be gone\'97I have an hundred people waiting for me at home\'97besides, were I inclined to hear a sermon, I should desire Mr. Dorriforth to preach, and not you."
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'94\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 When Mrs. Hillgrave had been seated a few minutes, Mrs. Horton, who loved information equally with the most inquisitive of her sex, asked the new visitor\'97"If she might be permitted to know, why, at the mention of Miss Milner, she had seemed so much affected?"\
This question exciting the fears of Dorriforth, he turned anxiously round, attentive to the reply.\

\b "Miss Milner," answered she, "has been my benefactress and the best I ever had." As she spoke, she took out her handkerchief and wiped away the tears that ran down her face.
\b0 \
"How so?" cried Dorriforth eagerly, with his own eyes moistened with joy, nearly as much as her's were with gratitude.\
"My husband, at the commencement of his distresses," replied Mrs. Hillgrave, "owed a sum of money to her father, and from repeated provocations, Mr. Milner was determined to seize upon all our effects\'97
\b his daughter, however, by her intercessions, procured us time, in order to discharge the debt; and when she found\'a0
\i that
\i0 \'a0time was insufficient, and her father no longer to be dissuaded from his intention, she secretly sold some of her most valuable ornaments to satisfy his demand, and screen us from its consequences.
\b0 "
\fs22\fsmilli11200 \

\fs24 Dorriforth, pleased at this recital, took Mrs. Hillgrave by the hand, and told her, "she should never want a friend."\
"Is Miss Milner tall, or short?" again asked Mrs. Horton, fearing, from the sudden pause which had ensued, the subject should be dropped.\
"I don't know," answered Mrs. Hillgrave.\

\b "Is she handsome, or ugly?"\
"I really can't tell."
\b0 \
"It is very strange you should not take notice!"\

\b "I did take notice, but I cannot depend upon my own judgment\'97to me she appeared beautiful as an angel; but perhaps I was deceived by the beauties of her disposition."
\f0\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'94\
I.III: \'93
\f1\b\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 This gentlewoman's visit inspired Mr. Dorriforth with some confidence in the principles and character of his ward.
\b0  
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'94\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 But the natural vivacity, the gaiety which report had given to Miss Milner, were softened by her recent sorrow to a meek sadness\'97and that haughty display of charms, imputed to her manners, was changed to a pensive demeanor. The instant Dorriforth was introduced to her by Miss Woodley as her "Guardian, and her deceased father's most beloved friend," she burst into tears, knelt down to him for a moment, and promised ever to obey him as her father. He had his handkerchief to his face at the time, or she would have beheld the agitation\'97the remotest sensations of his heart.
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'94\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Miss Woodley, as they rode along, made no attempts to ingratiate herself with Miss Milner; though, perhaps, such an honour might constitute one of her first wishes\'97she behaved to her but as she constantly behaved to every other human creature\'97that, was sufficient to gain the esteem of a person possessed of an understanding equal to Miss Milner's\'97
\b she had penetration to discover Miss Woodley's unaffected worth, and was soon induced to reward it with the warmest friendship
\b0 .
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'94\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 LitEncyclopedia: \'93
\f2\fs28 \cf5 \cb6 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 From the first, Miss Milner's beauty is a source of remark, but hercharacter and temperament are less certain. Widely regarded as in partInchbald's self-portrait, Miss Milner is an unusual combination of virtuesand failings, one that anticipates the same sort of mixture in JaneAusten's\'a0
\i Emma
\i0 . Miss Milner shows great generosity and compassion,but, presumably because she has had only the shallow education usual at aconventional boarding school, she is also prone to vanity and thoughtlessness.\'94
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
Matilda as an orphan is Gothic; she\'92s even named Matilda!\
III.I: \'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Even her infant daughter she left behind, nor would allow herself the consolation of her innocent, though reproachful smiles\'97
\b she left her in her father's house, that she might be under his protection
\b0 ; parted with her, as she thought, for ever, with all the agonies with which mothers part from their infant children: and yet, even a mother can scarce conceive how much more sharp those agonies were, on beholding\'97the child sent after her, as the perpetual outcast of its father. \
Lord Elmwood's love to his wife had been extravagant\'97the effect of his hate was the same. Beholding himself separated from her by a barrier never to be removed, he vowed in the deep torments of his revenge, never to be reminded of her by one individual object; much less, by one so near to her as her child. To bestow upon that child his affections, would be, he imagined, still, in some sort, to divide them with the mother. Firm in his resolution, the beautiful Matilda, was, at the age of six years, sent out of her father's house, and received by her mother with all the tenderness, but with all the anguish, of those parents, who behold their offspring visited by the punishment due only to their own offences.
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'94\
III.V: \'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 \'94Then listen to what they are, for to you I give the charge of delivering them again. Lady Elmwood has petitioned me in the name of her father, (a name I reverence) to give his grandchild the sanction of my protection.
\b  In the literal sense, to suffer that she may reside at one of my seats; dispensing at the same time with my ever seeing her
\b0 ."\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj
\cf4 "And you will comply?"\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl260\qr

\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf4 [Pg 190]\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi300\sl280\sa180\qj

\fs24 \cf4 "I will, till she encroaches on this concession, and dares to hope for a greater. I will, while she avoids my sight, or the giving me any remembrance of her. But if, whether by design or by accident, I ever see or hear from her, that moment, my compliance to her mother's supplication ceases, and I abandon her once more."\
Sandford sighed. Lord Elmwood continued:\
"I am glad her request stopped where it did. I would rather comply with her desires than not; and I rejoice they are such as I can grant with ease and honour to myself. I am seldom now at Elmwood castle; let her daughter go there; the few weeks or months I am down in the summer, she may easily in that extensive house avoid me\'97while she does, she lives in security\'97when she does not\'97you know my resolution."\
Sandford bowed\'97the Earl resumed:\
"Nor can it be a hardship to obey this command\'97she cannot lament the separation from a parent whom she never knew\'97" Sandford was going eagerly to prove the error of that assertion, but he prevented him, saying, "In a word\'97without farther argument\'97if she obeys me in this, I will provide for her as my daughter during my life, and leave her a fortune at my death\'97but if she dares\'97"\
Sandford interrupted the menace prepared for utterance
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'94}