{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \'93This collection of essays pulls together many Smiths. For the first time in one volume we read of her as novelist, poet, playwright, letter-writer \'97 and literary icon, gaining and then losing a posthumous identity through how others wrote about her. Perhaps because of the ways in which she has subsequently been recovered \'97 moving from minor novelist and pre-Romantic poet to proto-feminist \'91personal is political\'92 figurehead, to central 1790s novelist and essential Romantic poet \'97 Smith occupies several different rhetorical positions. This can be seen, for example, in how the several editors of her novels and poetry have read and presented her, as well as how she writes and presents herself. 
\b Smith, significantly, composes herself anew according to genre
\b0 ; readers both recognize and complicate this process.\'94 (2)\
\
\'93Very few Smith scholars work actively on both the novels and the poetry, and consequently we have been learning about two separate Smiths, each closely linked to the genre she writes in, neither closely linked to the other. Because the novel during the Romantic period is undergoing an extraordinary amount of change and innovation, as it moves closer to its modern form, editors of the novels (myself included) tend to focus on Smith\'92s techniques and innovations, her use of tropes and themes, her facility with genres and description. Conversely, because Romantic poetry in the Smithian tradition is so closely tied up with explorations of selfhood and subjectivity, memory and a personalized past, editors of the poetry tend to present it as reflective of a personalized state of mind, of \'91woman\'92s\'92 experience, treating its manifold themes and narratives as, finally, reducible to and manifested from Smith\'92s life. 
\b Is it all to do with inherent qualities of genre, or is it more to do with the expectations we as readers bring to different genres?
\b0  Genre, it seems, carries a greater force in constructing our preconceptions of identity than has been recognized, and Smith is a case in point, a case we can crack by studying closely Smith\'92s style and techniques 
\i across
\i0  genres.\'94 (\cf2 Labbe \cf0 5)\
\
\'93In its fourteen essays, this collection illustrates Smith\'92s depth and versatility as an author. It offers varied and astute readings of her work as deeply informed by history, culture, and politics, and through Behrendt\'92s and Duckling\'92s essays on her posthumous reputation and her literary afterlives, it shows how Smith\'92s centrality transmuted into a marginality derived from cultural insistences on seeing her as a woman who wrote, rather than a writer who was female. Countering the few lingering descriptions of Smith as obscure or minor, the essays in this volume aptly demonstrate how seriously scholars need to treat her work, and how vital and central she is to our understanding of British Romanticism.\'94 (10)}