{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93The vast majority of those digitized books-around 95 percent, as of mid-2017- had originally been scanned as part of the Google Books project; the agreements that Google Books entered into with the libraries typically stipulated that Google had to provide the library with a digital copy of each book scanned from that library.\'94 (Bauder)\
\'93When Google partnered with university libraries to scan their collections, it had agreed to give them each a copy of the scanning data, and in 2008 the HathiTrust began organizing and sharing those files. (It had to fend off the Authors Guild in court, too.) HathiTrust has 125 member organizations and institutions who \'93believe that we can better stewardresearch and cultural heritage by working together than alone or by leaving it to an organization like Google,\'94 says Mike Furlough, the trust\'92s director.\'94 (Van Helden)\
\'94HathiTrust was launched in 2008 by the 11 University of California libraries and the 12-university consortium known as the Committee on Institutional Cooperation (CIC), with key support provided by the University of Michigan and Indiana University.\'94 (Karels) \'93As of today [October 13, 2008], HathiTrust contains more than 2 million volumes and approximately \'be of a billion pages, about 16 percent of which are in the public domain. Public domain materials will be available for reading online. Materials protected by copyright, although not available for reading online, are given the full range of digital archiving services, thereby offering member libraries a reliable means to preserve their collections.\'94 (HathiTrust, \'93Major Library Partners Launch HathiTrust Shared Digital Repository\'94)\
In 2010, just two years later, \'94HathiTrust is now jointly owned and operated by 52 institutions from the U.S. and Europe, all focused on a common goal \'96 to build an extraordinary digital library that preserves and provides access to the cultural record. The new members to HathiTrust include the Library of Congress, Stanford University, Arizona State University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and University of Madrid, HathiTrust\'92s first international partner.\'94 (Karels)\
\'94In October 2015, HathiTrust comprised over 13.7 million volumes, including 5.3 million of which were in the public domain in the United States.\'94 (Wikipedia)\
\
\'93HathiTrust, as a co-managed and co-funded collaborative of academic and research libraries, relies on its members to govern its programmatic, financial, and strategic directions. Membership established the governance model in 2012 and comprises the following entities: \
The Board of Governors\
The Program Steering Committee\
The governing bodies operate under the HathiTrust Bylaws. In addition to the formal governing bodies, multiple working, advisory, and task-based groups further enable member libraries to participate in and guide the direction of HathiTrust. As necessary, members vote on various policies or changes using the weighted voting system established in 2011.\'94 (HathiTrust, \'93Governance\'94)\
\
\'93The budget of HathiTrust is a separately maintained budget held within the University of Michigan budget system and managed by the Executive Director with oversight from the Executive Committee. Some additional financial components of the operation are represented by commitments in kind by participating members. The University Library\'92s financial procedures are subject to audits by the University of Michigan Office of University Audits.\'94 (HathiTrust, \'93Governance\'94)\
\
Wikipedia: \'93The partnership includes over 60 research libraries[7] across the United States, Canada, and Europe, and is based on a shared governance structure. Costs are shared by the participating libraries and library consortia.[8] The repository is administered by the University of Michigan.[9] The Executive Director of HathiTrust is Mike Furlough.[10] The HathiTrust Shared Print Program is a distributed collective collection whose participating libraries have committed to retaining almost 18 million monograph volumes for 25 years, representing three-quarters of HathiTrust digital book holdings.[11]\'94}